HB1644 -ASINTRODUCED
2026SESSION
26-3024
12/06
HOUSEBILL
ANACT permittingtownstounilaterallywithdrawfromacooperativeschooldistrict.
MaryMurphy,Hills.27;Sen.Ward,Dist8
COMMITTEE: EducationPolicyandAdministration
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
ANALYSIS
Thisbill:
I. Permits a single district or town within a cooperative school district to initiate the procedure
forreviewforwithdrawalfromthecooperativeschooldistrict.
II. Amends the current procedure for review by removing the step for committee determination
ofthewithdrawalplan.
III. Removes the ability of a 3/5 supermajority of voters in the entire cooperative school district
frompreventingasingledistrictortown'swithdrawal.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
Explanation: Matteraddedtocurrentlawappearsinbolditalics.
Matterremovedfromcurrentlawappears[inbracketsandstruckthrough.]
Matterwhichiseither(a)allnewor(b)repealedandreenactedappearsinregulartype.

HB1644-ASINTRODUCED
26-3024
12/06
STATEOFNEWHAMPSHIRE
IntheYearofOurLordTwoThousandTwenty-Six
ANACT permittingtownstounilaterallywithdrawfromacooperativeschooldistrict.
BeitEnactedbytheSenateandHouseofRepresentativesinGeneralCourtconvened:
1 CooperativeSchoolDistricts;ProcedureforReview. AmendRSA195:25toreadasfollows:
195:25 ProcedureforReview.
I. After the tenth anniversary of the date of operating responsibility, the school board of a
cooperativeschooldistrictmayinitiateareviewof thefeasibilityandsuitabilityofthewithdrawal of
one or more member districts from the cooperative district. A similar review shall be initiated if,
after the tenth anniversary of the date of operating responsibility, a [pre-existing district] member
district or town intending to withdraw from the cooperative school district shall, by a 3/5
majority vote on a warrant article at a regular or special town meeting, direct the school board of a
cooperative school district to initiate such a review. In either case, the review shall be conducted by
a committee composed of one member of the school board from each of the pre-existing districts, one
member of the board of selectmen from each town within the cooperative school district, and such
other members as may be appointed by the committee. The committee shall have its first meeting
no later 60 days following its creation or by the vote at the annual meeting which established the
committee.
II. Within 180 days after the committee's first meeting, the committee shall report its
findings to the state board of education. The committee shall submit a report to the school board of
the cooperative school district. The report shall indicate whether the withdrawal of one or more
towns from the cooperative school district is recommended, not recommended, or whether more time
and information are needed to make a determination. The report shall also include any
minority reports which differ from the committee's report in the recommendation for
withdrawalofoneormoretowns.
III. The committeeshall developawithdrawalplaninaccordance withRSA195:26.
TheplanshallbesubmittedtothestateboardofeducationnolaterthanNovember1.
[III. If the committee finds that the withdrawal of one or more towns from the cooperative
school district is recommended, the committee shall develop a withdrawal plan in accordance with
RSA 195:26. The plan shall be submitted to the state board of education no later than November 1.
Members of the committee who voted against recommending withdrawal may file a minority report
withthestateboardofeducationnolaterthanNovember1.
IV. If the committee finds that the withdrawal of one or more towns from the cooperative
school districts is not recommended, the committee shall file a report with the school board of the
cooperative school district and the committee shall be dissolved. Members of the committee who

HB1644 -ASINTRODUCED
-Page2-
voted to recommend the withdrawal of one or more towns from the cooperative school district may
fileaminorityreportwiththeschoolboardofthecooperativeschooldistrict.
V. If the committee finds that more time and information are needed to make a
determination, the committee shall reconvene within 30 days of filing its initial report and continue
its work. In such a case, the committee shall, within 180 of filing its initial report, file a subsequent
reportwiththeschoolboardofthecooperativeschooldistrictindicatingwhetherthewithdrawofone
or more towns from the cooperative school district is recommended or not recommended. If the
committee finds that the withdrawal of one or more towns from the cooperative school district is not
recommended, members of the committee who voted to recommend the withdrawal of one or more
towns from the cooperative school district may file a minority report with the school board of the
cooperativeschooldistrict. Ifthecommitteefindsthatthewithdrawalofoneormoretownsfromthe
cooperative school district is recommended, the committee shall develop a withdrawal plan in
accordance with RSA 195:26. The plan shall be submitted to the state board of education no later
than November 1. Members of the committee who voted against the withdrawal plan and its
recommendations may file a minority report with the state board of education no later than
November1.
VI.] IV. If the state board approves the withdrawal plan[, whether submitted by the
committee or by minority report,] the plan shall be submitted to the voters of the cooperative school
districtinaccordancewithRSA195:29.
2 Cooperative School Districts; Vote on Withdrawal; Single Town or District Vote. Amend RSA
195:29,IIItoreadasfollows:
III. If a 3/5 supermajority of the voters present and voting in the withdrawing preexisting
district vote in the affirmative, in favor of thewithdrawal, the clerk of the cooperative school district
shall forthwith send to the state board of education a certified copy of the warrant, certificate of
posting,evidenceofpublication,andminutesofthemeeting[unlessa3/5supermajorityofthevoters
presentandvotingintheentirecooperativedistrictvoteinthenegative,againstwithdrawal].
3 EffectiveDate. Thisactshalltakeeffect60daysafteritspassage.
