FILED SENATE
Mar 20, 2025

S

GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF NORTH CAROLINA
S.B. 355
SESSION 2025
PRINCIPAL CLERK
D
SENATE BILL DRS35135-ND-50

Short Title:

Support the Dept. of Adult Correction.-AB

Sponsors:

Senators Daniel, Britt, and B. Newton (Primary Sponsors).

(Public)

Referred to:

A BILL TO BE ENTITLED
AN ACT TO SUPPORT THE WORK OF THE DEPARTMENT OF ADULT CORRECTION.
The General Assembly of North Carolina enacts:
PART I. COMMUNITY SUPERVISION
WAIVE TUITION FOR SURVIVORS OF FALLEN PROBATION OFFICERS
SECTION 1.1.(a) G.S. 115B-1 reads as rewritten:
"§ 115B-1. Definitions.
The following definitions apply in this Chapter:
…
(4)
Permanently and totally disabled as a direct result of a traumatic injury
sustained in the line of duty. – A person: (i) who as a law enforcement officer,
correctional officer, probation officer, firefighter, volunteer firefighter, or
rescue squad worker suffered a disabling injury while in active service or
training for active service, (ii) who at the time of active service or training was
a North Carolina resident, and (iii) who has been determined to be
permanently and totally disabled for compensation purposes by the North
Carolina Industrial Commission.
(4c) Probation officer. – An employee of an employer who is certified as a
probation officer under the provisions of Article 1 of Chapter 17C of the
General Statutes.
…
(6)
Survivor. – Any person whose parent, legal guardian, legal custodian, or
spouse: (i) was a law enforcement officer, a correctional officer, a probation
officer, a firefighter, a volunteer firefighter, or a rescue squad worker, (ii) was
killed while in active service or training for active service or died as a result
of a service-connected disability, and (iii) at the time of active service or
training was a North Carolina resident. The term does not include the widow
or widower of a law enforcement officer, correctional officer, probation
officer, firefighter, volunteer firefighter, or a rescue squad worker if the
widow or widower has remarried.
…."
SECTION 1.1.(b) G.S. 115B-2(a) reads as rewritten:

*DRS35135-ND-50*

General Assembly Of North Carolina

Session 2025

"(a) The constituent institutions of The University of North Carolina and the community
colleges as defined in G.S. 115D-2(2) shall permit the following persons to attend classes for
credit or noncredit purposes without the required payment of tuition:
…
(2)
Any person who is the survivor of a law enforcement officer, correctional
officer, probation officer, firefighter, volunteer firefighter, or rescue squad
worker killed as a direct result of a traumatic injury sustained in the line of
duty.
(3)
The spouse of a law enforcement officer, correctional officer, probation
officer, firefighter, volunteer firefighter, or rescue squad worker who is
permanently and totally disabled as a direct result of a traumatic injury
sustained in the line of duty.
(4)
Any child, if the child is at least 17 years old but not yet 24 years old, whose
parent, legal guardian, or legal custodian is a law enforcement officer,
correctional officer, probation officer, firefighter, volunteer firefighter, or
rescue squad worker who is permanently and totally disabled as a direct result
of a traumatic injury sustained in the line of duty. However, a child's eligibility
for a waiver of tuition under this Chapter shall not exceed: (i) 54 months, if
the child is seeking a baccalaureate degree, or (ii) if the child is not seeking a
baccalaureate degree, the number of months required to complete the
educational program to which the child is applying.
…."
SECTION 1.1.(c) G.S. 115B-5(b) reads as rewritten:
"(b) The officials of the institutions charged with administration of this Chapter shall
require the following proof to insure that a person applying to the institution and who requests a
tuition waiver under G.S. 115B-2(a)(2), (3), or (4) is eligible for the benefits provided by this
Chapter.
…
(3)
The cause of death of the law enforcement officer, correctional officer,
probation officer, firefighter, volunteer firefighter, or rescue squad worker
shall be verified by certification from the records of the Department of State
Treasurer, the appropriate city or county law enforcement agency that
employed the deceased, the administrative agency for the fire department or
fire protection district recognized for funding under the Department of State
Auditor, or the administrative agency having jurisdiction over any paid
firefighters of all counties and cities.
…."
SECTION 1.1.(d) This section is effective when it becomes law and applies to
waivers of tuition granted on or after that date.
MODIFY
TECHNICAL
REQUIREMENTS
FOR
ELECTRONIC
MONITORING/SATELLITE-BASED MONITORING
SECTION 1.2.(a) G.S. 15A-101.1 reads as rewritten:
"§ 15A-101.1. Electronic technology in criminal process and procedure.
As used in this Chapter, in Chapter 7A of the General Statutes, in Chapter 15 of the General
Statutes, and in all other provisions of the General Statutes that deal with criminal process or
procedure:
(1)
"Attach" or "attached" means, when Attach or attached. – When referring to
documents existing in paper form, physical attachment by staples, clips, or
other mechanical means, or managed such that neither document is stored or
delivered without the other. When referring to documents stored in electronic
Page 2

General Assembly Of North Carolina

(1a)

(2)

(3)

(3a)

(4)
…
(6)

Session 2025

form, the term means either storage as a single digital file or storage in a
manner that a user interface for access to the documents displays clearly the
logical association between them, to the exclusion of other, unassociated
documents displayed with them. When referring to documents delivered in
electronic form, the term means documents delivered simultaneously and via
the same mechanism or medium, including, but not limited to, any of the
following: (i) delivery via a single email message, (ii) delivery on a single unit
of removable electronic media, or (iii) delivery in immediate,
contemporaneous sequence with one another from the same source to the same
recipient. It is not necessary that the relationship between documents appear
on the face of the documents in order to be deemed attached.
"Copy" means all Copy. – All identical versions of a document created or
existing in paper or electronic form, including the original and all other
identical versions of the document. Except where otherwise expressly
provided by law or when authority is vested only in a certified copy, a copy
of a document is equally authoritative as the original.
"Document" means any Document. – Any pleading, criminal process,
subpoena, complaint, motion, application, notice, affidavit, commission,
waiver, consent, dismissal, order, judgment, or other writing intended in a
criminal or contempt proceeding to authorize or require an action, to record a
decision or to communicate or record information. A document may be
created and exist in paper form or in electronic form or in both forms. Each
document shall contain the legible, printed name of the person who signed the
document.
"Electronic" means relating Electronic. – Relating to technology having
electrical, digital, magnetic, wireless, optical, electromagnetic, Internet, or
similar capabilities.
"Electronic monitoring" or "electronically monitor" or "satellite-based
monitoring" means monitoring Electronic monitoring or electronically
monitor or satellite-based monitoring. – Monitoring with an electronic
monitoring device that is not removed from a person's body, that is utilized by
the supervising agency in conjunction with a Web-based computer system that
actively monitors, identifies, tracks, and records a person's location at least
once every minute 24 hours a day, that has a battery life of at least 48 hours
without being recharged, that timely records and reports or records the
person's presence near or within a crime scene or prohibited area or the
person's departure from a specified geographic location, and that has
incorporated into the software the ability to automatically compare crime
scene data with locations of all persons being electronically monitored so as
to provide any correlation daily or in real time. In areas of the State where lack
of cellular coverage requires the use of an alternative device, the supervising
agency shall use an alternative device that works in concert with the software
and records location and tracking data for later download and crime scene
comparison.
"Electronic Repository" means an Electronic repository. – An automated
electronic repository for criminal process created and maintained pursuant to
G.S. 15A-301.1.
"Entered" means signed Entered. – Signed and filed in the office of the clerk
of superior court of the county in which the document is to be entered. A
document may be entered in either paper form or electronic form.

Page 3

General Assembly Of North Carolina

Session 2025

"Filing" or "filed" means:Filing or filed. –
…
(8)
"Issued" applies Issued. – Applies to documents in either paper form or
electronic form. A document that is first created in paper form is issued when
it is signed. A document that is first created in electronic form is issued when
it is signed and filed in the office of the clerk of superior court of the county
for which it is to be issued.
(9)
"Original" means:Original. –
…
(10) "Signature" means any Signature. – Any symbol, including, but not limited to,
the name of an individual, which is executed by that individual, personally or
through an authorized agent, with the intent to authenticate or to effect the
issuance or entry of a document. A document may be signed by the use of any
manual, mechanical or electronic means that causes the individual's signature
to appear in or on the document. Any party challenging the validity of a
signature shall have the burden of pleading, producing evidence, and proving
that the signature was not the act of the person whose signature it appears to
be."
SECTION 1.2.(b) This section is effective when it becomes law and applies to an
electronic monitoring device used on or after that date.
(7)

EXTENSION OF MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE PERIOD OF PROBATION
SECTION 1.3.(a) G.S. 15A-1342(a) reads as rewritten:
"(a) Period. – The court may place a convicted offender on probation for the appropriate
period as specified in G.S. 15A-1343.2(d), not to exceed a maximum of five years. years, unless
an extension is authorized pursuant to G.S. 15A-1344 thereby extending the maximum by one
additional year. The court may place a defendant as to whom prosecution has been deferred or
who receives a conditional discharge on probation for a maximum of two years. The probation
remains conditional and subject to revocation during the period of probation imposed, unless
terminated as provided in subsection (b) or G.S. 15A-1341(c).
Extension. – In addition to G.S. 15A-1344, the court with the consent of the defendant may
extend the period of probation beyond the original period (i) for the purpose of allowing the
defendant to complete a program of restitution, or (ii) to allow the defendant to continue medical
or psychiatric treatment ordered as a condition of the probation. The period of extension shall not
exceed three years beyond the original period of probation. The special extension authorized
herein may be ordered only in the last six months of the original period of probation. Any
probationary judgment form provided to a defendant on supervised probation shall state that
probation may be extended pursuant to this subsection."
SECTION 1.3.(b) G.S. 15A-1343.2(d) reads as rewritten:
"(d) Lengths of Probation Terms Under Structured Sentencing. – Unless the court makes
specific findings that longer or shorter periods of probation are necessary, the length of the
original period of probation for offenders sentenced under Article 81B shall be as follows:
…
If the court finds at the time of sentencing that a longer period of probation is necessary, that
period may not exceed a maximum of five years, as specified in G.S. 15A-1342 and
G.S. 15A-1351.G.S. 15A-1351, unless an extension is authorized pursuant to G.S. 15A-1344
thereby extending the maximum by one additional year.
Extension. – The court may with the consent of the offender extend the original period of the
probation if necessary to complete a program of restitution or to complete medical or psychiatric
treatment ordered as a condition of probation. This extension may be for no more than three
years, and may only be ordered in the last six months of the original period of probation."
Page 4

General Assembly Of North Carolina

Session 2025

SECTION 1.3.(c) G.S. 15A-1344(d) reads as rewritten:
"(d) Extension and Modification; Response to Violations. – At any time prior to the
expiration or termination of the probation period or in accordance with subsection (f) of this
section, the court may after notice and hearing hearing, unless the probationer waives the hearing,
and for good cause shown extend the period of probation up to the maximum allowed under
G.S. 15A-1342(a) and may modify the conditions of probation. probation, however, no more
than one extension of any probation period may be ordered except that the court may extend the
total time on probation by up to one additional year if the probationer admits the probationer has
violated their conditions of probation or is found by the court to have violated the conditions of
their probation. Total time on any probation term, including any extension, shall not exceed the
maximum term as established in G.S. 15A-1342(a) plus one additional year if the probationer
admits or the court finds that the probationer has violated their conditions of probation. A hearing
extending or modifying probation may be held in the absence of a defendant who fails to appear
for the hearing after a reasonable effort to notify the defendant. If a probationer violates a
condition of probation at any time prior to the expiration or termination of the period of probation,
the court, in accordance with the provisions of G.S. 15A-1345, may continue the defendant on
probation, with or without modifying the conditions, may place the defendant on special
probation as provided in subsection (e), or, if continuation, modification, or special probation is
not appropriate, may revoke the probation and activate the suspended sentence imposed at the
time of initial sentencing, if any, or may order that charges as to which prosecution has been
deferred be brought to trial; provided that probation may not be revoked solely for conviction of
a Class 3 misdemeanor. The court, before activating a sentence to imprisonment established when
the defendant was placed on probation, may reduce the sentence, but the reduction shall be
consistent with subsection (d1) of this section. A sentence activated upon revocation of probation
commences on the day probation is revoked and runs concurrently with any other period of
probation, parole, or imprisonment to which the defendant is subject during that period unless
the revoking judge specifies that it is to run consecutively with the other period."
SECTION 1.3.(d) This section becomes effective December 1, 2025, and applies to
new terms of probation ordered on or after that date.
PART II. INSTITUTIONS
SEXUALLY VIOLENT PREDATOR DETERMINATIONS
SECTION 2.1.(a) G.S. 14-208.20(b) reads as rewritten:
"(b) Prior to sentencing a person as a sexually violent predator, the court shall order a
presentence investigation in accordance with G.S. 15A-1332(c). However, the study of the
defendant and whether the defendant is a sexually violent predator shall be conducted by a board
of experts selected by the Division of Prisons of the Department of Adult Correction. The board
of experts shall be composed of at least four people. Two of the board members shall be experts
in the field of the behavior and treatment of sexual offenders, one of whom shall be selected from
a panel of experts in those fields provided by the North Carolina Medical Society and not be
employed full time with the Division of Prisons of the Department of Adult Correction or
employed on a full-time basis with any other State agency. One of the board members shall be a
victims' rights advocate, and one of the board members shall be a representative of law
enforcement agencies."
SECTION 2.1.(b) This section becomes effective December 1, 2025, and applies to
boards of experts selected on or after that date.
EXTEND SUNSET DATE FOR USE OF SECURITY GUARDS AT STATE PRISONS

Page 5

General Assembly Of North Carolina

Session 2025

SECTION 2.2.(a) Section 4.15(c) of S.L. 2020-3, as amended by Section 2 of S.L.
2020-15, Section 19D.2 of S.L. 2021-180, Section 12 of S.L. 2022-58, Section 19D.1 of S.L.
2022-74, and Section 9(a) of S.L. 2023-121, reads as rewritten:
"SECTION 4.15.(c) This section is effective when it becomes law and expires on June 30,
2025.2027."
SECTION 2.2.(b) This section is effective when it becomes law.
PART III. SUPPORT SERVICES
USE OF AVAILABLE FUNDS FOR REPAIR AND RENOVATION PURPOSES
SECTION 3.1.(a) G.S. 143C-8-13 is amended by adding a new subsection to read:
"(e) Notwithstanding any provision of G.S. 143C-8-7 to the contrary, the Secretary of the
Department of Adult Correction may pay for projects for repairs and renovations with funds
available to the agency according to the following requirements:
(1)
The project meets all of the following requirements:
a.
The total project costs do not exceed one million dollars ($1,000,000).
b.
The project is one of the types set forth in subdivisions (1) through
(13) of subsection (a) of this section, regardless of whether the relevant
facilities and related infrastructure are supported from the General
Fund or the State Capital and Infrastructure Fund.
(2)
The Department reports on projects undertaken pursuant to this subsection to
the Fiscal Research Division on a quarterly basis. The report shall include all
of the following information for each project:
a.
The facility at which the project is being undertaken.
b.
The nature and scope of the project.
c.
The source of funds for the project.
d.
The category of projects set forth in subsection (a) of this section that
the project falls within.
(3)
Any funds from a General Fund appropriation that are contractually obligated
for a project pursuant to this subsection shall not revert at the end of the fiscal
year but shall remain available to fund the completion of the project."
SECTION 3.1.(b) This section is effective when it becomes law and applies to
payments for projects for repairs and renovations occurring on or after that date.
REMAINING BALANCES FROM OLD INDEBTEDNESS PROJECTS
SECTION 3.2.(a) Notwithstanding S.L. 2006-66 and S.L. 2015-241, the Department
of Adult Correction may use up to one million six hundred twelve thousand four hundred
eighty-one dollars and fourteen cents ($1,612,481.14) from the projects described in Section
23.12(g) of S.L. 2006-66 and Section 31.22 of S.L. 2015-241 to finance capital facility costs of
HVAC projects at State facilities. No additional special indebtedness may be issued or incurred
to finance these projects. The use of funds authorized by this section shall not require further
approval by the Council of State pursuant to Chapter 142 of the General Statutes.
SECTION 3.2.(b) This section is effective when it becomes law.
PART IV. COMPREHENSIVE HEALTH SERVICES
TEMPORARY EMPLOYEE 31-DAY SEPARATION EXCEPTION
SECTION 4.1.(a) G.S. 126-6.3 reads as rewritten:
"§ 126-6.3. Temporary employment needs of Cabinet and Council of State agencies; use of
the Temporary Solutions Program.
Page 6

General Assembly Of North Carolina

Session 2025

(a)
Use of Temporary Solutions Required for Cabinet Agencies. – Notwithstanding
G.S. 126-5 or any other provision of law, all Cabinet agencies that utilize temporary employees
to perform work that is not health services-related in the Department of Adult Correction and the
Department of Health and Human Services or information technology-related shall employ them
through the Temporary Solutions Program administered by the Office of State Human Resources
(OSHR). Council of State agencies may use the Temporary Solutions Program in the discretion
of the agency.
…
(b1) Exemption. – Notwithstanding this section and the policies and rules adopted
pursuant to it, health services-related temporary employees working in the Department of Adult
Correction and the Department of Health and Human Services shall be exempt from any
break-in-service requirement. This exemption is only for purposes of Article 1 of Chapter 126 of
the General Statutes. This subsection does not apply to the mandatory break-in-service
requirement for purposes of Chapter 135 of the General Statutes.
…."
SECTION 4.1.(b) This section is effective when it becomes law and applies to
temporary employees hired on or after that date.
PART V. OFFICE OF STAFF DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING (OSDT)
VESTED PROBATION AND PAROLE OFFICERS MAINTAIN ELIGIBILITY FOR
SUPPLEMENTAL RETIREMENT WHEN SERVING IN NONCERTIFIED ROLES
SECTION 5.1.(a) G.S. 135-1 reads as rewritten:
"§ 135-1. Definitions.
The following words and phrases as used in this Chapter, unless a different meaning is plainly
required by the context, shall have the following meanings:
(1)
"Accumulated contributions" shall mean the Accumulated contributions. –
The sum of all the amounts deducted from the compensation of a member and
accredited to his individual account in the annuity savings fund, together with
regular interest thereon as provided in G.S. 135-8.
(2)
"Actuarial equivalent" shall mean a Actuarial equivalent. – A benefit of equal
value when computed upon the basis of actuarial assumptions as shall be
adopted by the Board of Trustees.
(3)
"Annuity" shall mean payments Annuity. – Payments for life derived from
that "accumulated contribution" of a member. All annuities shall be payable
in equal monthly installments.
(4)
"Annuity reserve" shall mean the Annuity reserve. – The present value of all
payments to be made on account of any annuity or benefit in lieu of any
annuity, computed upon the basis of such mortality tables as shall be adopted
by the Board of Trustees, and regular interest.
(4a) "Authorized Authorized representatives who are assisting the Retirement
Systems Division staff" means only staff. – Only other staff of the Department
of State Treasurer, staff of the Department of Justice, or persons providing
internal auditing assistance required under G.S. 143-746(b).
…
(5)
"Average Average final compensation" shall mean the compensation. – The
average annual compensation of a member during the four consecutive
calendar years of membership service producing the highest such average; but
shall not include any compensation, as determined by the Board of Trustees,
for the reimbursement of expenses or payments for housing or any other
allowances whether or not classified as salary and wages. Payout of vacation

Page 7

General Assembly Of North Carolina

(6)

(7)
(7a)

(7b)

(7c)

(7d)

(8)

(8a)

(9)

Page 8

Session 2025

leave shall be included in "average final compensation" only if the payout is
received by the member during the four consecutive calendar years of
membership service producing the highest average annual compensation of
the member. In the event a member is or has been in receipt of a benefit under
the provisions of G.S. 135-105 or G.S. 135-106, the compensation used in the
calculation of "average final compensation" shall be the higher of
compensation of the member under the provisions of this Article or
compensation used in calculating the payment of benefits under Article 6 of
this Chapter as adjusted for percentage increases in the post disability benefit.
"Beneficiary" shall mean any Beneficiary. – Any person in receipt of a
pension, an annuity, a retirement allowance or other benefit as provided by
this Chapter.
"Board of Trustees" shall mean the Board of Trustees. – The Board provided
for in G.S. 135-6 to administer the Retirement System.
a. "Compensation" shall mean all Compensation. – All salaries and wages
prior to any reduction pursuant to sections 125, 401(k), 403(b), 414(h)(2), and
of the Internal Revenue Code, not including any terminal payments for
unused sick leave, derived from public funds which are earned by a member
of the Retirement System for service as an employee or teacher in the unit of
the Retirement System for which he is performing full-time work. In addition
to the foregoing, "compensation" shall include:
…
"Compliance investigation" means an Compliance investigation. – An
independent review or examination by Retirement Systems Division staff or
authorized representatives who are assisting the Retirement Systems Division
staff of records, activities, actions, or decisions by employers or other
affiliated or associated entities having an impact on a Retirement System or
benefits administered by the Board of Trustees. The purpose of a compliance
investigation is to help detect errors and ensure compliance and full
accountability in the use of pension funds.
"Conduct Conduct directly related to the office or employment" shall mean
conduct employment. – Conduct by the member resulting in a felony
conviction that:
…
"Consumer Consumer Price Index" shall mean the Index. – The Consumer
Price Index for All Urban Consumers (CPI-U), U.S. City Average, all items,
not seasonally adjusted, standard reference base, as published by the Bureau
of Labor Statistics of the U.S. Department of Labor.
"Creditable service" shall mean the Creditable service. – The total of "prior
service" plus "membership service" plus service, both noncontributory and
purchased, for which credit is allowable as provided under this Article. In no
event, however, shall "creditable service" be deemed "membership service"
for the purpose of determining eligibility for benefits accruing under this
Article.
"Duly acknowledged" means notarized, Duly acknowledged. – Notarized,
including electronic notarization, or verified through an identity
authentication service approved by the Department of State Treasurer.
"Earnable compensation" shall mean the Earnable compensation. – The full
rate of the compensation that would be payable to a teacher or employee if he
worked in full normal working time. In cases where compensation includes

General Assembly Of North Carolina

(10)

Session 2025

maintenance, the Board of Trustees shall fix the value of that part of the
compensation not paid in money.
"Employee" shall mean all Employee. – All full-time employees, agents or
officers of the State of North Carolina or any of its departments, bureaus and
institutions other than educational, whether such employees are elected,
appointed or employed: Provided that the term "employee" shall not include
employees of the University of North Carolina Health Care System who are
not eligible for participation under G.S. 135-5.6, employees of the East
Carolina University School of Medicine or Dental School of Medicine who
are not eligible for participation under G.S. 135-5.7, any person who is a
member of the Consolidated Judicial Retirement System, any member of the
General Assembly or any part-time or temporary employee. Notwithstanding
any other provision of law, "employee" shall include all employees of the
General Assembly except participants in the Legislative Intern Program,
pages, and beneficiaries in receipt of a monthly retirement allowance under
this Chapter who are reemployed on a temporary basis. "Employee" also
includes any participant whose employment is interrupted by reason of service
in the Uniformed Services, as that term is defined in section 4303(16) of the
Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Rights Act, Public Law
103-353, if that participant was an employee at the time of the interruption; if
the participant does not return immediately after that service to employment
with a covered employer in this System, then the participant shall be deemed
"in service" until the date on which the participant was first eligible to be
separated or released from his or her involuntary military service. In all cases
of doubt, the Board of Trustees shall determine whether any person is an
employee as defined in this Chapter. "Employee" shall also mean every
full-time civilian employee of the North Carolina National Guard who is
employed pursuant to section 709 of Title 32 of the United States Code and
paid from federal appropriated funds, but held by the federal authorities not to
be a federal employee: Provided, however, that the authority or agency paying
the salaries of such employees shall deduct or cause to be deducted from each
employee's salary the employee's contribution in accordance with applicable
provisions of G.S. 135-8 and remit the same, either directly or indirectly, to
the Retirement System; coverage of employees described in this sentence shall
commence upon the first day of the calendar year or fiscal year, whichever is
earlier, next following the date of execution of an agreement between the
Secretary of Defense of the United States and the Adjutant General of the State
acting for the Governor in behalf of the State, but no credit shall be allowed
pursuant to this sentence for any service previously rendered in the
above-described capacity as a civilian employee of the North Carolina
National Guard: Provided, further, that the Adjutant General, in the Adjutant
General's discretion, may terminate the Retirement System coverage of the
above-described North Carolina National Guard employees if a federal
retirement system is established for such employees and the Adjutant General
elects to secure coverage of such employees under such federal retirement
system. Any full-time civilian employee of the North Carolina National Guard
described above who is now or hereafter may become a member of the
Retirement System may secure Retirement System credit for such service as
a North Carolina National Guard civilian employee for the period preceding
the time when such employees became eligible for Retirement System
coverage by paying to the Retirement System an amount equal to that which

Page 9

General Assembly Of North Carolina

Session 2025

would have constituted employee contributions if the employee had been a
member during the years of ineligibility, plus interest. Employees of State
agencies, departments, institutions, boards, and commissions who are
employed in permanent job positions on a recurring basis must work at least
hours per week for nine or more months per calendar year in order to be
covered by the provisions of this subdivision. On and after August 1, 2001, a
person who is a nonimmigrant alien and who otherwise meets the
requirements of this subdivision shall not be excluded from the definition of
"employee" solely because the person holds a temporary or time-limited visa.
(11) "Employer" shall mean the Employer. – The State of North Carolina, the
county board of education, the city board of education, the State Board of
Education, the board of trustees of the University of North Carolina, the
University of North Carolina Health Care System, the board of trustees of
other institutions and agencies supported and under the control of the State, or
any other agency of and within the State by which a teacher or other employee
is paid. For purposes of reporting under the pronouncements by the
Governmental Accounting Standards Board, the Retirement System is a
multi-employer plan.
(11a) "Filing" when Filing. – When used in reference to an application for
retirement shall mean the receipt of an acceptable application on a form
provided by the Retirement System.
(11b) "Fraud investigation" means an Fraud investigation. – An independent review
or examination by Retirement Systems Division staff or authorized
representatives who are assisting the Retirement Systems Division staff of
records, activities, actions, or decisions by employers or other affiliated or
associated entities having an impact on the Retirement System. The purpose
of a fraud investigation is to help detect and prevent fraud and to ensure full
accountability in the use of pension funds.
(11c) "Law-Enforcement Officer" means a Law-Enforcement Officer. – A full-time
paid employee of an employer who is actively serving in a position with
assigned primary duties and responsibilities for prevention and detection of
crime or the general enforcement of the criminal laws of the State of North
Carolina or serving civil processes, and who possesses the power of arrest by
virtue of an oath administered under the authority of the State.
"Law-Enforcement Officer" also means a probation/parole officer as defined
in this section with respect to any service rendered on or after July 1, 2017.
(12) "Medical board" shall mean the Medical board. – The board of physicians
provided for in G.S. 135-6.
(13) "Member" shall mean any Member. – Any teacher or State employee included
in the membership of the System as provided in G.S. 135-3 and 135-4.
(14) "Membership service" shall mean service Membership service. – Service as a
teacher or State employee rendered while a member of the Retirement System
or membership service in a North Carolina Retirement System that has been
transferred into this system.
(15) "Pension reserve" shall mean the Pension reserve. – The present value of all
payments to be made on account of any pension or benefit in lieu of any
pension computed upon the basis of such mortality tables as shall be adopted
by the Board of Trustees, and regular interest.
(16) "Pensions" shall mean payments Pensions. – Payments for life derived from
money provided by the State of North Carolina, and by county or city boards
of education. All pensions shall be payable in equal monthly installments.
Page 10

General Assembly Of North Carolina

Session 2025

"Prior service" shall mean service Prior service. – Service rendered prior to
the date of establishment of the Retirement System for which credit is
allowable under G.S. 135-4; provided, persons now employed by the Board
of Transportation shall be entitled to credit for employment in road
maintenance by the various counties and road districts prior to 1931.
(17a) "Probation/Parole Officer" shall mean a Probation/Parole Officer. – A
full-time paid employee of the Division of Community Supervision and
Reentry of the Department of Adult Correction whose duties include
supervising, evaluating, or otherwise instructing offenders who have been
placed on probation, parole, or post-release supervision or have been assigned
to any other community-based program operated by the Division of
Community Supervision and Reentry.Reentry, or a full-time paid employee
of the Department of Adult Correction's Office of Staff Development and
Training who is certified as a Probation/Parole Officer and works exclusively
in a training role.
(18) "Public school" shall mean any Public school. – Any day school conducted
within the State under the authority and supervision of a duly elected or
appointed city or county school board, and any educational institution
supported by and under the control of the State.
(19) "Regular interest" shall mean interest Regular interest. – Interest compounded
annually at such a rate as shall be determined by the Board of Trustees in
accordance with G.S. 135-7, subsection (b).
(20) "Retirement" under Retirement. – Under this Chapter, except as otherwise
provided, means the commencement of monthly retirement benefits along
with termination of employment and the complete separation from active
service with no intent or agreement, express or implied, to return to service.
A retirement allowance under the provisions of this Chapter may only be
granted upon retirement of a member. In order for a member's retirement to
become effective in any month, the member must perform no work for an
employer, including part-time, temporary, substitute, or contractor work, at
any time during the six months immediately following the effective date of
retirement. A member who is a full-time faculty member of The University of
North Carolina may effect a retirement allowance under this Chapter,
notwithstanding the six-month requirement above, provided the member
immediately enters the University's Phased Retirement Program for Tenured
Faculty as that program existed on May 25, 2011. For purposes of this
subdivision, all of the following shall not be considered service or work:
…
(21) "Retirement allowance" shall mean the Retirement allowance. – The sum of
the "annuity and the pensions," or any optional benefit payable in lieu thereof.
(22) "Retirement System" shall mean the Retirement System. – The Teachers' and
State Employees' Retirement System of North Carolina as defined in
G.S. 135-2.
(23) "Service" shall mean service Service. – Service as a teacher or State employee
as described in subdivision (10) or (25) of this section.
(24) "Social security breakpoint" shall mean the Social security breakpoint. – The
maximum amount of taxable wages under the Federal Insurance Contributions
Act as from time to time in effect.
(25) "Teacher" shall mean (i) any Teacher. – Any (i) teacher, helping teacher,
teacher in a job-sharing position under G.S. 115C-326.5 except for a
beneficiary in that position, librarian, superintendent principal, supervisor,
(17)

Page 11

General Assembly Of North Carolina

Session 2025

superintendent of public schools or any full-time employee, city or county, of
public instruction, or any full-time employee of the Department of Public
Instruction, president, dean or teacher, or any full-time employee in any
educational institution supported by and under the control of the State; State,
who (ii) who works at least 30 or more hours per week for at least nine or
more months per calendar year. The term "teacher" shall not include any
employee or teacher in a part-time, temporary, or substitute position, except
for a teacher in a job-sharing position. The term "teacher" does not include
those participating in an optional retirement program provided for in
G.S. 135-5.1 or G.S. 135-5.4. In all cases of doubt, the Board of Trustees shall
determine whether any person is a teacher as defined in this Chapter. On and
after August 1, 2001, a person who is a nonimmigrant alien and who otherwise
meets the requirements of this subdivision shall not be excluded from the
definition of "teacher" solely because the person holds a temporary or
time-limited visa. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the term "teacher" shall not
include any nonimmigrant alien employed in elementary or secondary public
schools, whether employed in a full-time, part-time, temporary, permanent, or
substitute teacher position, and participating in an exchange visitor program
designated by the United States Department of State pursuant to 22 C.F.R.
Part 62 or by the United States Department of Homeland Security pursuant to
C.F.R. Part 214.2(q).
(26) "Year" as Year. – As used in this Article shall mean the regular fiscal year
beginning July 1 and ending June 30 in the following calendar year unless
otherwise defined by regulation of the Board of Trustees."
SECTION 5.1.(b) This section is effective when it becomes law and applies to
determinations under Article 1 of Chapter 135 of the General Statutes made on or after that date.
PART VI. TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS
POST-RELEASE SUPERVISION ELIGIBILITY AND PROCEDURE
SECTION 6.1.(a) G.S. 15A-1368.2(c1) reads as rewritten:
"(c1) Notwithstanding subsection (c) of this section, a person required to submit to
satellite-based monitoring pursuant to G.S. 15A-1368.4(b1)(6) shall continue to participate in
satellite-based monitoring beyond the period of post-release supervision until the Commission
superior court in the county where the conviction occurred releases the person from that
requirement pursuant to G.S. 14-208.43."
SECTION 6.1.(b) This section is effective when it becomes law and applies to
satellite-based monitoring releases ordered on or after that date.
EXCLUDE DEPARTMENT OF ADULT CORRECTION INVESTIGATIONS FROM
CERTAIN INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY RESTRICTIONS
SECTION 6.2.(a) G.S. 143-805(d) reads as rewritten:
"(d) Subsections (a) and (b) of this section shall not apply to an official or employee that
is engaged in any of the following activities in the course of that official's or employee's official
duties:
…
(8)
Investigating matters involving offenders incarcerated with, or otherwise
under the supervision of, the Department of Adult Correction or matters
related to the misuse of devices owned by the Department of Adult
Correction."
Page 12

General Assembly Of North Carolina

Session 2025

SECTION 6.2.(b) This section is effective when it becomes law and applies to
investigations occurring before, on, or after that date.
PART VII. SEVERABILITY AND EFFECTIVE DATE
SEVERABILITY CLAUSE
SECTION 7.1. If any part, section, or provision of this act is declared
unconstitutional or invalid by the courts, it does not affect the validity of this act as a whole or
any part other than the part declared to be unconstitutional or invalid.
EFFECTIVE DATE
SECTION 7.2. Except as otherwise provided, this act is effective when it becomes
law.

Page 13
