A BILL for an Act to create and enact chapter 51-38 of the North Dakota Century Code, relating
to the regulation of kratom products; to amend and reenact section 12.1-31-03 of the North
Dakota Century Code, relating to the sale of kratom to individuals under twenty-one years of
age; to provide a penalty; to provide an appropriation; and to provide an effective date.
BE IT ENACTED BY THE LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY OF NORTH DAKOTA:
SECTION 1. AMENDMENT. Section 12.1-31-03 of the North Dakota Century Code is
amended and reenacted as follows:
12.1-31-03. Sale of tobacco, electronic smoking devices, or alternative nicotine
products, or kratom to an individual under twenty-one years of age and use by an
individual under twenty-one years of age prohibited.
1. a. It is an infraction for any person to sell or furnish to an individual under
twenty-one years of age, or procure for an individual under twenty-one years of
age, cigarettes, cigarette papers, cigars, snuff, tobacco in any other form in which
it may be utilized for smoking or chewing, electronic smoking devices, or
alternative nicotine products, or kratom. As used in this subdivision, "sell"
includes dispensing from a vending machine under the control of the actor.
b. It is an infraction for any person to display or offer for sale cigarettes, cigarette
papers, cigars, snuff, tobacco in any other form in which it may be utilized for
smoking or chewing, electronic smoking devices, or alternative nicotine products,
or kratom through a self-service display. This subdivision does not apply to a:
(1) Vending machine or other coin-operated machine that is permitted under
section 12.1-31-03.1; or
(2) Self-service display that is located in a tobacco specialty store.
Page No. 1 25.1453.03000

Sixty-ninth
Legislative Assembly
2. It is a noncriminal offense for an individual eighteen years of age or older but under
twenty-one years of age, and an infraction for an individual fourteen years of age or
older but under eighteen years of age, to purchase, possess, smoke, or use
cigarettes, cigars, cigarette papers, snuff, tobacco in any other form in which it may be
utilized for smoking or chewing, electronic smoking devices, or alternative nicotine
products, or kratom. However, an individual under twenty-one years of age may
purchase and possess tobacco, electronic smoking devices, or alternative nicotine
products, or kratom as part of a compliance survey program when acting with the
permission of the individual's parent or guardian and while acting under the
supervision of any law enforcement authority. A state agency, city, county, board of
health, tobacco, electronic smoking devices, or alternative nicotine products retailer, or
association of tobacco, electronic smoking devices, or alternative nicotine products, or
kratom retailers may also may conduct compliance surveys, after coordination with the
appropriate local law enforcement authority.
3. Subsections 1 and 2 do not apply to an individual under twenty-one years of age who
possesses cigarettes, cigarette papers, cigars, snuff, tobacco in any other form in
which it may be used for smoking or chewing, electronic smoking devices, or
alternative nicotine products, or kratom when required in the performance of the
individual's duties as an employee.
4. It is a noncriminal offense for an individual under twenty-one years of age to present or
offer to another individual a purported proof of age which is false, fraudulent, or not
actually that individual's own proof of age, for the purpose of attempting to purchase or
possess cigarettes, cigars, cigarette papers, snuff, tobacco in any other form in which
it may be utilized for smoking or chewing, electronic smoking devices, or alternative
nicotine products, or kratom.
5. A city or county may adopt an ordinance or resolution regarding the sale of tobacco,
electronic smoking devices, or alternative nicotine products to individuals under
twenty-one years of age and use of tobacco, electronic smoking devices, or alternative
nicotine products, or kratom by individuals under twenty-one years of age which
includes prohibitions in addition to those in subsection 1, 2, or 4. Any ordinance or
resolution adopted must include provisions deeming a violation of subsection 2 or 4 a
Page No. 2 25.1453.03000

Sixty-ninth
Legislative Assembly
noncriminal violation and must provide for a fee of not less than twenty-five dollars for
an individual fourteen years of age or older who has been charged with an offense
under subsection 2 or 4. The failure to post a required bond or pay an assessed fee by
an individual found to have violated the ordinance or resolution is punishable as a
contempt of court, except an individual under twenty-one years of age may not be
imprisoned for the contempt.
6. An individual fourteen years of age or older but under eighteen years of age found to
have violated subsection 2 or 4 has committed an infraction and must be sent to
juvenile court. An individual eighteen years of age or older but under twenty-one years
of age found to have violated subsection 2 or 4 must pay a fee of twenty-five dollars.
a. Any individual who has been cited for a violation of subsection 2 or 4 may appear
before a court of competent jurisdiction and pay the fee by the time scheduled for
a hearing, or if bond has been posted, may forfeit the bond by not appearing at
the scheduled time. An individual appearing at the time scheduled in the citation
may make a statement in explanation of that individual's action and the judge
may waive, reduce, or suspend the fee or bond, or both. If the individual cited
follows the procedures of this subdivision, that individual has admitted the
violation and has waived the right to a hearing on the issue of commission of the
violation. The bond required to secure appearance before the court must be
identical to the fee. This subdivision does not allow a citing officer to receive the
fee or bond.
b. If an individual cited for a violation of subsection 2 or 4 does not choose to follow
the procedures provided under subdivision a, that individual may request a
hearing on the issue of the commission of the violation cited. The hearing must
be held at the time scheduled in the citation or at some future time, not to exceed
ninety days later, set at that first appearance. At the time of a request for a
hearing on the issue on commission of the violation, the individual cited shall
deposit with the court an appearance bond equal to the fee for the violation cited.
c. The failure to post bond or to pay an assessed fee is punishable as a contempt of
court, except an individual may not be imprisoned for the contempt.
Page No. 3 25.1453.03000

Sixty-ninth
Legislative Assembly
7. The prosecution must prove the commission of a cited violation under subsection 2
or 4 by a preponderance of the evidence.
8. A law enforcement officer that cites a minor for violation of this section shall mail a
notice of the violation to the parent or legal guardian of the minor within ten days of the
citation.
9. A person adjudged guilty of contempt for failure to pay a fee or fine may be sentenced
by the court to a sanction or order designed to ensure compliance with the payment of
the fee or fine or to an alternative sentence or sanction including community service.
10. As used in this section:
a. "Alternative nicotine product" means any noncombustible product containing
nicotine that is intended for human consumption, whether chewed, absorbed,
dissolved, or ingested by any other means. The term does not include any
cigarette, cigar, snuff, or tobacco in any other form in which it may be utilized for
smoking or chewing, any electronic smoking device, or any product regulated as
a drug or device by the United States food and drug administration under
chapter V of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act [21 U.S.C 501 et seq.].
b. "Electronic smoking device" means any electronic product that delivers nicotine
or other substances to the individual inhaling from the device, including, an
electronic cigarette, e-cigar, e-pipe, vape pen, or e-hookah. Electronic smoking
device includes any component, part, or accessory of such a product, whether or
not sold separately. Electronic smoking device does not include drugs, devices,
or combination products approved for sale by the United States food and drug
administration, as those terms are defined in the Federal Food, Drug and
Cosmetic Act [52 Stat. 1040; 21 U.S.C. 301 et seq.].
c. "Kratom" means kratom leaf or material extracted from kratom leaf using a food-
grade solvent, which contains a level of 7-hydroxymitragynine in the alkaloid
fraction which is less than two percent of the alkaloid composition of the product.
d. "Self-service display" means a display that contains cigarettes, cigarette papers,
cigars, snuff, tobacco in any other form which it may be utilized for smoking or
chewing, electronic smoking devices, or alternative nicotine products and is
located in an area that is openly accessible to the retailer's customers, and from
Page No. 4 25.1453.03000

Sixty-ninth
Legislative Assembly
which customers can readily access those products without the assistance of a
salesperson. A display case that holds those products behind locked doors does
not constitute a self-service display.
d.e. "Tobacco specialty store" means a retail store that:
(1) Derives at least seventy-five percent of its revenue from the sale of
cigarettes, cigarette papers, cigars, snuff, tobacco in any other form in which
it may be utilized for smoking or chewing, electronic smoking devices, or
alternative nicotine products; and
(2) Does not permit minors to enter the premises unless accompanied by a
parent or legal guardian.
e.f. "Vending machine" means a machine, appliance, or other mechanical device
operated by currency, token, debit card, credit card, or other means of payment
that is designed or used for vending purposes, including machines or devices
that use remote control locking mechanisms.
SECTION 2. Chapter 51-38 of the North Dakota Century Code is created and enacted as
follows:
51 - 38 - 01. Definitions .
As used in this chapter:
1. "Kratom" means kratom leaf or material extracted from kratom leaf using a food-grade
solvent, which contains a level of 7-hydroxymitragynine in the alkaloid fraction which is
less than two percent of the alkaloid composition of the product.
2. "Kratom leaf" means the leaf of the mitragyna speciosa plant in fresh, dehydrated, or
dried form.
3. "Kratom product" means a food, beverage, or dietary substance containing kratom.
4. "Processor" means a person that sells, prepares, manufactures, distributes,
wholesales, or stores kratom products.
5. "Retailer" means a person that sells, distributes, or advertises kratom products.
51 - 38 - 02. Processor and retailer - License required - Fees .
1. A processor or retailer may not prepare, distribute, or sell kratom unless the processor
or retailer holds a license issued by the attorney general.
Page No. 5 25.1453.03000

Sixty-ninth
Legislative Assembly
2. A separate license is required for each facility or place of business operated or
maintained by a processor or retailer.
3. An initial application for a processor or retailer license must be accompanied by a fee
of ten thousand dollars.
4. A license issued under this section expires on June thirtieth following the date of
issuance unless the license is sooner revoked by the attorney general. A license may
be renewed annually upon payment of a renewal fee of five hundred dollars.
5. A processor or retailer shall prominently display the license at the facility or place of
business for which the license was issued.
51 - 38 - 03. Processor and retailer - Requirements - Labeling standards .
1. A processor or retailer may not prepare, distribute, advertise, or sell a kratom product
that:
a. Is adulterated or contaminated with a substance that affects the quality, strength,
or safety of the product.
b. Contains a synthetic alkaloid.
c. Imitates the appearance of a candy or confection or is designed or marketed in a
manner that appeals to a child.
d. Is packaged in a manner likely to deceive an individual of the safe or
recommended dose.
2. A processor or retailer may not distribute, advertise, or sell a kratom product to an
individual under twenty-one years of age.
3. A processor or retailer shall ensure each kratom product has a label that clearly and
conspicuously provides:
a. The name and contact information of the manufacturer or distributor;
b. A complete list of ingredients;
c. The recommended serving size;
d. The amount of mitragynine and 7-hydroxymitragynine per serving;
e. The number of servings per package;
f. The expiration date of the product;
g. Kratom may be habit forming and may interact with medication, drugs, and
controlled substances;
Page No. 6 25.1453.03000

Sixty-ninth
Legislative Assembly
h. The product is not intended for use by an individual who is pregnant,
breastfeeding, or under twenty - one years of age ;
i. A health care provider should be consulted before use; and
j. The product is not approved by the federal food and drug administration and is
not intended to diagnose, treat, cure, or prevent disease.
4. A processor or retailer shall store and lock all kratom products behind a sales counter
in a manner that prevents consumer access without the assistance of an employee.
5. A processor or retailer may not sell a kratom product in the form of a food or beverage
unless the kratom leaf is extracted using a food-grade solvent approved by the federal
food and drug administration.
51 - 38 - 04. Attorney general - Enforcement - Authority .
1. The attorney general may inspect a processor's or retailer's facility or place of
business to determine compliance with this chapter.
2. A processor or retailer that violates this chapter is subject to seizure of any kratom
product that does not comply with section 51 - 38 - 03 and :
a. For a first violation, a fine of ten thousand dollars and suspension of the
processor's or retailer's license for three days;
b. For a second violation, a fine of fifteen thousand dollars and suspension of the
processor's or retailer's license for thirty days; and
c. For a third violation, a fine of twenty-five thousand dollars and permanent
revocation of the processor's or retailer's license.
3. The attorney general shall adopt rules to administer and enforce this chapter. The
attorney general may not issue a license under section 51 - 38 - 02 until the rules are
adopted.
51 - 38 - 05. Kratom regulation operating fund - Attorney general .
The kratom regulation operating fund is a special fund in the state treasury administered by
the attorney general. The fund consists of all kratom licensing fees collected under this chapter.
The attorney general may use moneys in the fund only for enforcement activities in accordance
with this chapter, subject to legislative appropriations.
SECTION 3. APPROPRIATION - DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES -
KRATOM PUBLIC HEALTH CAMPAIGN. There is appropriated out of any moneys in the
Page No. 7 25.1453.03000

Sixty-ninth
Legislative Assembly
general fund in the state treasury, not otherwise appropriated, the sum of $20,000, or so much
of the sum as may be necessary, to the department of health and human services for the
purpose of providing a kratom public health awareness campaign, including the maintenance of
kratom resources on the department's website, for the period beginning with the effective date
of this Act, and ending June 30, 2027.
SECTION 4. EFFECTIVE DATE. This Act becomes effective upon its filing with the
secretary of state.
Page No. 8 25.1453.03000
