SECOND REGULAR SESSION

HOUSE BILL NO. 3330
103RD GENERAL ASSEMBLY
INTRODUCED BY REPRESENTATIVE YOUNG.
7128H.01I

JOSEPH ENGLER, Chief Clerk

AN ACT
To amend chapter 191, RSMo, by adding thereto one new section relating to nutrition
prescriptions.

Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the state of Missouri, as follows:

Section A. Chapter 191, RSMo, is amended by adding thereto one new section, to be
known as section 191.849, to read as follows:
191.849. 1. As used in this section, the following terms mean:
(1) "Eligible foods", whole, unprocessed fruits and vegetables that are grown or
produced in this state;
(2) "Eligible producer", a producer who:
(a) Operates primarily in this state to produce eligible foods; and
(b) Meets standards established by rule of the department of health and senior
services;
(3) "Licensed health care provider", a physician, advanced practice registered
nurse, physician assistant, or dietitian or nutritionist licensed to provide services in this
state;
(4) "Nutrition prescription", a written or electronic recommendation issued by a
licensed health care provider for consumption of specific categories of food;
(5) "Participation":
(a) For licensed health care providers, issuing a nutrition prescription;
(b) For patients, receiving and filling a nutrition prescription; and
(c) For producers or nonprofit programs, providing foods for the fulfillment of
nutrition prescriptions;
EXPLANATION — Matter enclosed in bold-faced brackets [thus] in the above bill is not enacted and is
intended to be omitted from the law. Matter in bold-face type in the above bill is proposed language.

HB 3330

(6) "Producer", a farmer or food producer.
2. Licensed health care providers may issue nutrition prescriptions for dietsensitive conditions including, but not limited to, diabetes, hypertension, and
cardiovascular disease.
3. Any nonprofit program approved by the department of health and senior
services may fulfill a nutrition prescription issued in accordance with this section. A
nonprofit program shall be eligible for approval to fulfill nutrition prescriptions only if
the program is:
(1) A food-as-medicine program operated by a hospital or health system;
(2) A program operated by any of the following philanthropic or nonprofit
organizations:
(a) A food bank;
(b) A foundation;
(c) A local health nonprofit; or
(d) A faith-based organization; or
(3) A direct partnership with an eligible producer.
4. Participation by licensed health care providers, patients, producers, and
nonprofit programs is voluntary.
5. Participation under this section shall not affect a patient's eligibility for
benefits under the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program or the Special
Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children.
6. The department of health and senior services shall promulgate rules to
implement this section including, but not limited to, rules establishing eligibility
standards for foods provided under nutrition prescriptions and participation standards
for producers and nonprofit programs fulfilling nutrition prescriptions. Any rule or
portion of a rule, as that term is defined in section 536.010, that is created under the
authority delegated in this section shall become effective only if it complies with and is
subject to all of the provisions of chapter 536 and, if applicable, section 536.028. This
section and chapter 536 are nonseverable and if any of the powers vested with the
general assembly pursuant to chapter 536 to review, to delay the effective date, or to
disapprove and annul a rule are subsequently held unconstitutional, then the grant of
rulemaking authority and any rule proposed or adopted after August 28, 2026, shall be
invalid and void.
✔
