MISSISSIPPI LEGISLATURE

REGULAR SESSION 2026

By:

To:

Senator(s) Blackmon

Medicaid; Insurance

SENATE BILL NO. 2568

AN ACT TO AMEND SECTION 43-13-117, MISSISSIPPI CODE OF 1972,
TO REQUIRE MEDICAID AND PRIVATE INSURANCE COMPANIES REGULATED BY
THE STATE TO COVER ESSENTIAL DISABILITY-RELATED SUPPORTS FOR
CHILDREN AND TO PRESCRIBE REQUIRED COVERED SERVICES; AND FOR
RELATED PURPOSES.

BE IT ENACTED BY THE LEGISLATURE OF THE STATE OF MISSISSIPPI:

SECTION 1.

All health benefit plans, contracts or agreements

shall provide coverage for essential disability-related services

and supports, including, but not limited to, augmentative and

alternative communication devices, in-home nursing care,

behavioral therapy, developmental resources and services, diapers,

and necessary medical supplies for disabled children age eighteen

(18) or under, as determined by a physician.

standards shall be required, and repeated or unsupported denials

shall be prohibited, under this section.

SECTION 2.

amended as follows:

43-13-117.

Timely authorization

Section 43-13-117, Mississippi Code of 1972, is

(A)

Medicaid as authorized by this article shall

include payment of part or all of the costs, at the discretion of
S. B. No. 2568
PAGE 1 (rdd\tb)

*SS26/R348*

~ OFFICIAL ~

G1/2

the division, with approval of the Governor and the Centers for

Medicare and Medicaid Services, of the following types of care and

services rendered to eligible applicants who have been determined

to be eligible for that care and services, within the limits of

state appropriations and federal matching funds:

(1)

Inpatient hospital services.
(a)

The division is authorized to implement an All

Patient Refined Diagnosis Related Groups (APR-DRG) reimbursement

methodology for inpatient hospital services.

(b)

No service benefits or reimbursement

limitations in this subsection (A)(1) shall apply to payments

under an APR-DRG or Ambulatory Payment Classification (APC) model

or a managed care program or similar model described in subsection

(H) of this section unless specifically authorized by the

division.

(2)

Outpatient hospital services.

(a)

Emergency services.

(b)

Other outpatient hospital services.

The

division shall allow benefits for other medically necessary

outpatient hospital services (such as chemotherapy, radiation,

surgery and therapy), including outpatient services in a clinic or

other facility that is not located inside the hospital, but that

has been designated as an outpatient facility by the hospital, and

that was in operation or under construction on July 1, 2009,

provided that the costs and charges associated with the operation
S. B. No. 2568
PAGE 2 (rdd\tb)

*SS26/R348*

~ OFFICIAL ~

of the hospital clinic are included in the hospital's cost report.

In addition, the Medicare thirty-five-mile rule will apply to

those hospital clinics not located inside the hospital that are

constructed after July 1, 2009.

reimbursed as clinic services, the division may revise the rate or

methodology of outpatient reimbursement to maintain consistency,

efficiency, economy and quality of care.

(c)

Where the same services are

The division is authorized to implement an

Ambulatory Payment Classification (APC) methodology for outpatient

hospital services.

have fifty (50) or fewer licensed beds the option to not be

reimbursed for outpatient hospital services using the APC

methodology, but reimbursement for outpatient hospital services

provided by those hospitals shall be based on one hundred one

percent (101%) of the rate established under Medicare for

outpatient hospital services.

reimbursed under the APC methodology shall remain under cost-based

reimbursement for a two-year period.

(d)

The division shall give rural hospitals that

Those hospitals choosing to not be

No service benefits or reimbursement

limitations in this subsection (A)(2) shall apply to payments

under an APR-DRG or APC model or a managed care program or similar

model described in subsection (H) of this section unless

specifically authorized by the division.

(3)

Laboratory and x-ray services.

(4)

Nursing facility services.

S. B. No. 2568
PAGE 3 (rdd\tb)

*SS26/R348*

~ OFFICIAL ~

(a)

The division shall make full payment to

nursing facilities for each day, not exceeding forty-two (42) days

per year, that a patient is absent from the facility on home

leave.

addition to the forty-two-day limitation:

before Christmas, the day after Christmas, Thanksgiving, the day

before Thanksgiving and the day after Thanksgiving.

Payment may be made for the following home leave days in

(b)

Christmas, the day

From and after July 1, 1997, the division

shall implement the integrated case-mix payment and quality

monitoring system, which includes the fair rental system for

property costs and in which recapture of depreciation is

eliminated.

leave and therapeutic home leave days to the lower of the case-mix

category as computed for the resident on leave using the

assessment being utilized for payment at that point in time, or a

case-mix score of 1.000 for nursing facilities, and shall compute

case-mix scores of residents so that only services provided at the

nursing facility are considered in calculating a facility's per

diem.

The division may reduce the payment for hospital

(c)

From and after July 1, 1997, all state-owned

nursing facilities shall be reimbursed on a full reasonable cost

basis.

(d)

On or after January 1, 2015, the division

shall update the case-mix payment system resource utilization

grouper and classifications and fair rental reimbursement system.
S. B. No. 2568
PAGE 4 (rdd\tb)

*SS26/R348*

~ OFFICIAL ~

The division shall develop and implement a payment add-on to

reimburse nursing facilities for ventilator-dependent resident

services.

(e)

The division shall develop and implement, not

later than January 1, 2001, a case-mix payment add-on determined

by time studies and other valid statistical data that will

reimburse a nursing facility for the additional cost of caring for

a resident who has a diagnosis of Alzheimer's or other related

dementia and exhibits symptoms that require special care.

such case-mix add-on payment shall be supported by a determination

of additional cost.

as part of the fair rental reimbursement system for nursing

facility beds, an Alzheimer's resident bed depreciation enhanced

reimbursement system that will provide an incentive to encourage

nursing facilities to convert or construct beds for residents with

Alzheimer's or other related dementia.

(f)

Any

The division shall also develop and implement

The division shall develop and implement an

assessment process for long-term care services.

The division may

provide the assessment and related functions directly or through

contract with the area agencies on aging.

The division shall apply for necessary federal waivers to

assure that additional services providing alternatives to nursing

facility care are made available to applicants for nursing

facility care.

S. B. No. 2568
PAGE 5 (rdd\tb)

*SS26/R348*

~ OFFICIAL ~

(5)

Periodic screening and diagnostic services for

individuals under age twenty-one (21) years as are needed to

identify physical and mental defects and to provide health care

treatment and other measures designed to correct or ameliorate

defects and physical and mental illness and conditions discovered

by the screening services, regardless of whether these services

are included in the state plan.

periodic screening and diagnostic program those discretionary

services authorized under the federal regulations adopted to

implement Title XIX of the federal Social Security Act, as

amended.

occupational therapy services, and services for individuals with

speech, hearing and language disorders, may enter into a

cooperative agreement with the State Department of Education for

the provision of those services to handicapped students by public

school districts using state funds that are provided from the

appropriation to the Department of Education to obtain federal

matching funds through the division.

medical and mental health assessments, treatment, care and

services for children who are in, or at risk of being put in, the

custody of the Mississippi Department of Human Services may enter

into a cooperative agreement with the Mississippi Department of

Human Services for the provision of those services using state

funds that are provided from the appropriation to the Department

The division may include in its

The division, in obtaining physical therapy services,

S. B. No. 2568
PAGE 6 (rdd\tb)

*SS26/R348*

The division, in obtaining

~ OFFICIAL ~

of Human Services to obtain federal matching funds through the

division.

(6)

Physician services.

Fees for physician's services

that are covered only by Medicaid shall be reimbursed at ninety

percent (90%) of the rate established on January 1, 2018, and as

may be adjusted each July thereafter, under Medicare.

division may provide for a reimbursement rate for physician's

services of up to one hundred percent (100%) of the rate

established under Medicare for physician's services that are

provided after the normal working hours of the physician, as

determined in accordance with regulations of the division.

division may reimburse eligible providers, as determined by the

division, for certain primary care services at one hundred percent

(100%) of the rate established under Medicare.

reimburse obstetricians and gynecologists for certain primary care

services as defined by the division at one hundred percent (100%)

of the rate established under Medicare.

(7)

(a)

The

The

The division shall

Home health services for eligible persons, not

to exceed in cost the prevailing cost of nursing facility

services.

by the division.

nurse practitioners, physician assistants and clinical nurse

specialists are authorized to prescribe or order home health

services and plans of care, sign home health plans of care,

certify and recertify eligibility for home health services and

All home health visits must be precertified as required

S. B. No. 2568
PAGE 7 (rdd\tb)

In addition to physicians, certified registered

*SS26/R348*

~ OFFICIAL ~

conduct the required initial face-to-face visit with the recipient

of the services.

(b)
(8)

[Repealed]

Emergency medical transportation services as

determined by the division.
(9)

Prescription drugs and other covered drugs and

services as determined by the division.
The division shall establish a mandatory preferred drug list.

Drugs not on the mandatory preferred drug list shall be made

available by utilizing prior authorization procedures established

by the division.

The division may seek to establish relationships with other

states in order to lower acquisition costs of prescription drugs

to include single-source and innovator multiple-source drugs or

generic drugs.

regulation, the division may seek to establish relationships with

and negotiate with other countries to facilitate the acquisition

of prescription drugs to include single-source and innovator

multiple-source drugs or generic drugs, if that will lower the

acquisition costs of those prescription drugs.

In addition, if allowed by federal law or

The division may allow for a combination of prescriptions for

single-source and innovator multiple-source drugs and generic

drugs to meet the needs of the beneficiaries.

S. B. No. 2568
PAGE 8 (rdd\tb)

*SS26/R348*

~ OFFICIAL ~

The executive director may approve specific maintenance drugs

for beneficiaries with certain medical conditions, which may be

prescribed and dispensed in three-month supply increments.

Drugs prescribed for a resident of a psychiatric residential

treatment facility must be provided in true unit doses when

available.

Medicare Part D for a resident of a long-term care facility be

provided in true unit doses when available.

originally billed to the division but are not used by a resident

in any of those facilities shall be returned to the billing

pharmacy for credit to the division, in accordance with the

guidelines of the State Board of Pharmacy and any requirements of

federal law and regulation.

recipient and only one (1) dispensing fee per month may be

charged.

for restocked drugs, which shall include a restock fee as

determined by the division not exceeding Seven Dollars and

Eighty-two Cents ($7.82).

The division may require that drugs not covered by

Those drugs that were

Drugs shall be dispensed to a

The division shall develop a methodology for reimbursing

Except for those specific maintenance drugs approved by the

executive director, the division shall not reimburse for any

portion of a prescription that exceeds a thirty-one-day supply of

the drug based on the daily dosage.

The division is authorized to develop and implement a program

of payment for additional pharmacist services as determined by the

division.
S. B. No. 2568
PAGE 9 (rdd\tb)

*SS26/R348*

~ OFFICIAL ~

All claims for drugs for dually eligible Medicare/Medicaid

beneficiaries that are paid for by Medicare must be submitted to

Medicare for payment before they may be processed by the

division's online payment system.

The division shall develop a pharmacy policy in which drugs

in tamper-resistant packaging that are prescribed for a resident

of a nursing facility but are not dispensed to the resident shall

be returned to the pharmacy and not billed to Medicaid, in

accordance with guidelines of the State Board of Pharmacy.

The division shall develop and implement a method or methods

by which the division will provide on a regular basis to Medicaid

providers who are authorized to prescribe drugs, information about

the costs to the Medicaid program of single-source drugs and

innovator multiple-source drugs, and information about other drugs

that may be prescribed as alternatives to those single-source

drugs and innovator multiple-source drugs and the costs to the

Medicaid program of those alternative drugs.

Notwithstanding any law or regulation, information obtained

or maintained by the division regarding the prescription drug

program, including trade secrets and manufacturer or labeler

pricing, is confidential and not subject to disclosure except to

other state agencies.

The dispensing fee for each new or refill prescription,

including nonlegend or over-the-counter drugs covered by the

S. B. No. 2568
PAGE 10 (rdd\tb)

*SS26/R348*

~ OFFICIAL ~

division, shall be not less than Three Dollars and Ninety-one

Cents ($3.91), as determined by the division.

The division shall not reimburse for single-source or

innovator multiple-source drugs if there are equally effective

generic equivalents available and if the generic equivalents are

the least expensive.

It is the intent of the Legislature that the pharmacists

providers be reimbursed for the reasonable costs of filling and

dispensing prescriptions for Medicaid beneficiaries.

The division shall allow certain drugs, including

physician-administered drugs, and implantable drug system devices,

and medical supplies, with limited distribution or limited access

for beneficiaries and administered in an appropriate clinical

setting, to be reimbursed as either a medical claim or pharmacy

claim, as determined by the division.

It is the intent of the Legislature that the division and any

managed care entity described in subsection (H) of this section

encourage the use of Alpha-Hydroxyprogesterone Caproate (17P) to

prevent recurrent preterm birth.

(10)

Dental and orthodontic services to be determined

by the division.

The division shall increase the amount of the reimbursement

rate for diagnostic and preventative dental services for each of

the fiscal years 2022, 2023 and 2024 by five percent (5%) above

the amount of the reimbursement rate for the previous fiscal year.
S. B. No. 2568
PAGE 11 (rdd\tb)

*SS26/R348*

~ OFFICIAL ~

The division shall increase the amount of the reimbursement rate

for restorative dental services for each of the fiscal years 2023,

and 2025 by five percent (5%) above the amount of the

reimbursement rate for the previous fiscal year.

of the Legislature that the reimbursement rate revision for

preventative dental services will be an incentive to increase the

number of dentists who actively provide Medicaid services.

dental services reimbursement rate revision shall be known as the

"James Russell Dumas Medicaid Dental Services Incentive Program."

The Medical Care Advisory Committee, assisted by the Division

of Medicaid, shall annually determine the effect of this incentive

by evaluating the number of dentists who are Medicaid providers,

the number who and the degree to which they are actively billing

Medicaid, the geographic trends of where dentists are offering

what types of Medicaid services and other statistics pertinent to

the goals of this legislative intent.

presented to the Chair of the Senate Medicaid Committee and the

Chair of the House Medicaid Committee.

It is the intent

This

This data shall annually be

The division shall include dental services as a necessary

component of overall health services provided to children who are

eligible for services.

(11)

Eyeglasses for all Medicaid beneficiaries who have

(a) had surgery on the eyeball or ocular muscle that results in a

vision change for which eyeglasses or a change in eyeglasses is

medically indicated within six (6) months of the surgery and is in
S. B. No. 2568
PAGE 12 (rdd\tb)

*SS26/R348*

~ OFFICIAL ~

accordance with policies established by the division, or (b) one

(1) pair every five (5) years and in accordance with policies

established by the division.

must be prescribed by a physician skilled in diseases of the eye

or an optometrist, whichever the beneficiary may select.

(12)

In either instance, the eyeglasses

Intermediate care facility services.
(a)

The division shall make full payment to all

intermediate care facilities for individuals with intellectual

disabilities for each day, not exceeding sixty-three (63) days per

year, that a patient is absent from the facility on home leave.

Payment may be made for the following home leave days in addition

to the sixty-three-day limitation:

Christmas, the day after Christmas, Thanksgiving, the day before

Thanksgiving and the day after Thanksgiving.

(b)

Christmas, the day before

All state-owned intermediate care facilities

for individuals with intellectual disabilities shall be reimbursed

on a full reasonable cost basis.

(c)

Effective January 1, 2015, the division shall

update the fair rental reimbursement system for intermediate care

facilities for individuals with intellectual disabilities.

(13)

Family planning services, including drugs,

supplies and devices, when those services are under the

supervision of a physician or nurse practitioner.

(14)

Clinic services.

Preventive, diagnostic,

therapeutic, rehabilitative or palliative services that are
S. B. No. 2568
PAGE 13 (rdd\tb)

*SS26/R348*

~ OFFICIAL ~

furnished by a facility that is not part of a hospital but is

organized and operated to provide medical care to outpatients.

Clinic services include, but are not limited to:

(a)

centers (ASCs) as defined in Section 41-75-1(a); and

Services provided by ambulatory surgical

(b)
(15)

Dialysis center services.

Home- and community-based services for the elderly

and disabled, as provided under Title XIX of the federal Social

Security Act, as amended, under waivers, subject to the

availability of funds specifically appropriated for that purpose

by the Legislature.

(16)

Mental health services.

Certain services provided

by a psychiatrist shall be reimbursed at up to one hundred percent

(100%) of the Medicare rate.

management services (a) provided by an approved regional mental

health/intellectual disability center established under Sections

41-19-31 through 41-19-39, or by another community mental health

service provider meeting the requirements of the Department of

Mental Health to be an approved mental health/intellectual

disability center if determined necessary by the Department of

Mental Health, using state funds that are provided in the

appropriation to the division to match federal funds, or (b)

provided by a facility that is certified by the State Department

of Mental Health to provide therapeutic and case management

services, to be reimbursed on a fee for service basis, or (c)
S. B. No. 2568
PAGE 14 (rdd\tb)

*SS26/R348*

Approved therapeutic and case

~ OFFICIAL ~

provided in the community by a facility or program operated by the

Department of Mental Health.

facility described in subparagraph (b) must have the prior

approval of the division to be reimbursable under this section.

(17)

Any such services provided by a

Durable medical equipment services and medical

supplies.

Precertification of durable medical equipment and

medical supplies must be obtained as required by the division.

The Division of Medicaid may require durable medical equipment

providers to obtain a surety bond in the amount and to the

specifications as established by the Balanced Budget Act of 1997.

A maximum dollar amount of reimbursement for noninvasive

ventilators or ventilation treatments properly ordered and being

used in an appropriate care setting shall not be set by any health

maintenance organization, coordinated care organization,

provider-sponsored health plan, or other organization paid for

services on a capitated basis by the division under any managed

care program or coordinated care program implemented by the

division under this section.

to durable medical equipment suppliers for home use of noninvasive

and invasive ventilators shall be on a continuous monthly payment

basis for the duration of medical need throughout a patient's

valid prescription period.

(18)

(a)

Reimbursement by these organizations

Notwithstanding any other provision of this

section to the contrary, as provided in the Medicaid state plan

amendment or amendments as defined in Section 43-13-145(10), the
S. B. No. 2568
PAGE 15 (rdd\tb)

*SS26/R348*

~ OFFICIAL ~

division shall make additional reimbursement to hospitals that

serve a disproportionate share of low-income patients and that

meet the federal requirements for those payments as provided in

Section 1923 of the federal Social Security Act and any applicable

regulations.

division shall draw down all available federal funds allotted to

the state for disproportionate share hospitals.

after January 1, 1999, public hospitals participating in the

Medicaid disproportionate share program may be required to

participate in an intergovernmental transfer program as provided

in Section 1903 of the federal Social Security Act and any

applicable regulations.

It is the intent of the Legislature that the

(b)

(i)

1.

However, from and

The division may establish a Medicare

Upper Payment Limits Program, as defined in Section 1902(a)(30) of

the federal Social Security Act and any applicable federal

regulations, or an allowable delivery system or provider payment

initiative authorized under 42 CFR 438.6(c), for hospitals,

nursing facilities and physicians employed or contracted by

hospitals.

2.

The division shall establish a

Medicaid Supplemental Payment Program, as permitted by the federal

Social Security Act and a comparable allowable delivery system or

provider payment initiative authorized under 42 CFR 438.6(c), for

emergency ambulance transportation providers in accordance with

this subsection (A)(18)(b).
S. B. No. 2568
PAGE 16 (rdd\tb)

*SS26/R348*

~ OFFICIAL ~

(ii)

The division shall assess each hospital,

nursing facility, and emergency ambulance transportation provider

for the sole purpose of financing the state portion of the

Medicare Upper Payment Limits Program or other program(s)

authorized under this subsection (A)(18)(b).

assessment shall be as provided in Section 43-13-145(4)(a), and

the nursing facility and the emergency ambulance transportation

assessments, if established, shall be based on Medicaid

utilization or other appropriate method, as determined by the

division, consistent with federal regulations.

will remain in effect as long as the state participates in the

Medicare Upper Payment Limits Program or other program(s)

authorized under this subsection (A)(18)(b).

hospital assessment provided in Section 43-13-145(4)(a), hospitals

with physicians participating in the Medicare Upper Payment Limits

Program or other program(s) authorized under this subsection

(A)(18)(b) shall be required to participate in an

intergovernmental transfer or assessment, as determined by the

division, for the purpose of financing the state portion of the

physician UPL payments or other payment(s) authorized under this

subsection (A)(18)(b).

(iii)

The hospital

The assessments

In addition to the

Subject to approval by the Centers for

Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) and the provisions of this

subsection (A)(18)(b), the division shall make additional

reimbursement to hospitals, nursing facilities, and emergency
S. B. No. 2568
PAGE 17 (rdd\tb)

*SS26/R348*

~ OFFICIAL ~

ambulance transportation providers for the Medicare Upper Payment

Limits Program or other program(s) authorized under this

subsection (A)(18)(b), and, if the program is established for

physicians, shall make additional reimbursement for physicians, as

defined in Section 1902(a)(30) of the federal Social Security Act

and any applicable federal regulations, provided the assessment in

this subsection (A)(18)(b) is in effect.

(iv)

Notwithstanding any other provision of

this article to the contrary, effective upon implementation of the

Mississippi Hospital Access Program (MHAP) provided in

subparagraph (c)(i) below, the hospital portion of the inpatient

Upper Payment Limits Program shall transition into and be replaced

by the MHAP program.

develop and implement an alternative fee-for-service Upper Payment

Limits model in accordance with federal laws and regulations if

necessary to preserve supplemental funding.

division, in consultation with the hospital industry shall develop

alternative models for distribution of medical claims and

supplemental payments for inpatient and outpatient hospital

services, and such models may include, but shall not be limited to

the following:

services; creating a low-income utilization pool of funds to

reimburse hospitals for the costs of uncompensated care, charity

care and bad debts as permitted and approved pursuant to federal

regulations and the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services;
S. B. No. 2568
PAGE 18 (rdd\tb)

However, the division is authorized to

Further, the

increasing rates for inpatient and outpatient

*SS26/R348*

~ OFFICIAL ~

supplemental payments based upon Medicaid utilization, quality,

service lines and/or costs of providing such services to Medicaid

beneficiaries and to uninsured patients.

payment models shall be to ensure access to inpatient and

outpatient care and to maximize any federal funds that are

available to reimburse hospitals for services provided.

documents required to achieve the goals described in this

paragraph shall be submitted to the Centers for Medicare and

Medicaid Services, with a proposed effective date of July 1, 2019,

to the extent possible, but in no event shall the effective date

of such payment models be later than July 1, 2020.

of the Senate and House Medicaid Committees shall be provided a

copy of the proposed payment model(s) prior to submission.

Effective July 1, 2018, and until such time as any payment

model(s) as described above become effective, the division, in

consultation with the hospital industry, is authorized to

implement a transitional program for inpatient and outpatient

payments and/or supplemental payments (including, but not limited

to, MHAP and directed payments), to redistribute available

supplemental funds among hospital providers, provided that when

compared to a hospital's prior year supplemental payments,

supplemental payments made pursuant to any such transitional

program shall not result in a decrease of more than five percent

(5%) and shall not increase by more than the amount needed to

maximize the distribution of the available funds.
S. B. No. 2568
PAGE 19 (rdd\tb)

*SS26/R348*

The goals of such

~ OFFICIAL ~

Any such

The Chairmen

(v)

1.

To preserve and improve access to

ambulance transportation provider services, the division shall

seek CMS approval to make ambulance service access payments as set

forth in this subsection (A)(18)(b) for all covered emergency

ambulance services rendered on or after July 1, 2022, and shall

make such ambulance service access payments for all covered

services rendered on or after the effective date of CMS approval.

2.

The division shall calculate the

ambulance service access payment amount as the balance of the

portion of the Medical Care Fund related to ambulance

transportation service provider assessments plus any federal

matching funds earned on the balance, up to, but not to exceed,

the upper payment limit gap for all emergency ambulance service

providers.

3.

a.

Except for ambulance services

exempt from the assessment provided in this paragraph (18)(b), all

ambulance transportation service providers shall be eligible for

ambulance service access payments each state fiscal year as set

forth in this paragraph (18)(b).

b.

paid to ambulance transportation service providers for emergency

medical services provided to Medicaid beneficiaries, each eligible

ambulance transportation service provider shall receive ambulance

service access payments each state fiscal year equal to the

ambulance transportation service provider's upper payment limit
S. B. No. 2568
PAGE 20 (rdd\tb)

*SS26/R348*

In addition to any other funds

~ OFFICIAL ~

gap.

Subject to approval by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid

Services, ambulance service access payments shall be made no less

than on a quarterly basis.

c.

As used in this paragraph

(18)(b)(v), the term "upper payment limit gap" means the

difference between the total amount that the ambulance

transportation service provider received from Medicaid and the

average amount that the ambulance transportation service provider

would have received from commercial insurers for those services

reimbursed by Medicaid.

4.

An ambulance service access payment

shall not be used to offset any other payment by the division for

emergency or nonemergency services to Medicaid beneficiaries.

(c)

(i)

Not later than December l, 2015, the

division shall, subject to approval by the Centers for Medicare

and Medicaid Services (CMS), establish, implement and operate a

Mississippi Hospital Access Program (MHAP) for the purpose of

protecting patient access to hospital care through hospital

inpatient reimbursement programs provided in this section designed

to maintain total hospital reimbursement for inpatient services

rendered by in-state hospitals and the out-of-state hospital that

is authorized by federal law to submit intergovernmental transfers

(IGTs) to the State of Mississippi and is classified as Level I

trauma center located in a county contiguous to the state line at

the maximum levels permissible under applicable federal statutes
S. B. No. 2568
PAGE 21 (rdd\tb)

*SS26/R348*

~ OFFICIAL ~

and regulations, at which time the current inpatient Medicare

Upper Payment Limits (UPL) Program for hospital inpatient services

shall transition to the MHAP.

(ii)

Subject to approval by the Centers for

Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS), the MHAP shall provide

increased inpatient capitation (PMPM) payments to managed care

entities contracting with the division pursuant to subsection (H)

of this section to support availability of hospital services or

such other payments permissible under federal law necessary to

accomplish the intent of this subsection.

(iii)

The intent of this subparagraph (c) is

that effective for all inpatient hospital Medicaid services during

state fiscal year 2016, and so long as this provision shall remain

in effect hereafter, the division shall to the fullest extent

feasible replace the additional reimbursement for hospital

inpatient services under the inpatient Medicare Upper Payment

Limits (UPL) Program with additional reimbursement under the MHAP

and other payment programs for inpatient and/or outpatient

payments which may be developed under the authority of this

paragraph.

(iv)

The division shall assess each hospital

as provided in Section 43-13-145(4)(a) for the purpose of

financing the state portion of the MHAP, supplemental payments and

such other purposes as specified in Section 43-13-145.

S. B. No. 2568
PAGE 22 (rdd\tb)

*SS26/R348*

~ OFFICIAL ~

The

assessment will remain in effect as long as the MHAP and

supplemental payments are in effect.

(19)

(a)

Perinatal risk management services.

The

division shall promulgate regulations to be effective from and

after October 1, 1988, to establish a comprehensive perinatal

system for risk assessment of all pregnant and infant Medicaid

recipients and for management, education and follow-up for those

who are determined to be at risk.

include case management, nutrition assessment/counseling,

psychosocial assessment/counseling and health education.

division shall contract with the State Department of Health to

provide services within this paragraph (Perinatal High Risk

Management/Infant Services System (PHRM/ISS)).

Department of Health shall be reimbursed on a full reasonable cost

basis for services provided under this subparagraph (a).

(b)

Services to be performed

The

The State

Early intervention system services.

The

division shall cooperate with the State Department of Health,

acting as lead agency, in the development and implementation of a

statewide system of delivery of early intervention services, under

Part C of the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA).

The State Department of Health shall certify annually in writing

to the executive director of the division the dollar amount of

state early intervention funds available that will be utilized as

a certified match for Medicaid matching funds.

shall be used to provide expanded targeted case management
S. B. No. 2568
PAGE 23 (rdd\tb)

*SS26/R348*

Those funds then

~ OFFICIAL ~

services for Medicaid eligible children with special needs who are

eligible for the state's early intervention system.

Qualifications for persons providing service coordination shall be

determined by the State Department of Health and the Division of

Medicaid.

(20)

Home- and community-based services for physically

disabled approved services as allowed by a waiver from the United

States Department of Health and Human Services for home- and

community-based services for physically disabled people using

state funds that are provided from the appropriation to the State

Department of Rehabilitation Services and used to match federal

funds under a cooperative agreement between the division and the

department, provided that funds for these services are

specifically appropriated to the Department of Rehabilitation

Services.

(21)

Nurse practitioner services.

Services furnished

by a registered nurse who is licensed and certified by the

Mississippi Board of Nursing as a nurse practitioner, including,

but not limited to, nurse anesthetists, nurse midwives, family

nurse practitioners, family planning nurse practitioners,

pediatric nurse practitioners, obstetrics-gynecology nurse

practitioners and neonatal nurse practitioners, under regulations

adopted by the division.

not exceed ninety percent (90%) of the reimbursement rate for

comparable services rendered by a physician.
S. B. No. 2568
PAGE 24 (rdd\tb)

Reimbursement for those services shall

*SS26/R348*

The division may

~ OFFICIAL ~

provide for a reimbursement rate for nurse practitioner services

of up to one hundred percent (100%) of the reimbursement rate for

comparable services rendered by a physician for nurse practitioner

services that are provided after the normal working hours of the

nurse practitioner, as determined in accordance with regulations

of the division.

(22)

Ambulatory services delivered in federally

qualified health centers, rural health centers and clinics of the

local health departments of the State Department of Health for

individuals eligible for Medicaid under this article based on

reasonable costs as determined by the division.

qualified health centers shall be reimbursed by the Medicaid

prospective payment system as approved by the Centers for Medicare

and Medicaid Services.

qualified health centers (FQHCs), rural health clinics (RHCs) and

community mental health centers (CMHCs) as both an originating and

distant site provider for the purposes of telehealth

reimbursement.

reimburse FQHCs, RHCs and CMHCs for both distant site and

originating site services when such services are appropriately

provided by the same organization.

(23)

Federally

The division shall recognize federally

The division is further authorized and directed to

Inpatient psychiatric services.
(a)

Inpatient psychiatric services to be

determined by the division for recipients under age twenty-one

(21) that are provided under the direction of a physician in an
S. B. No. 2568
PAGE 25 (rdd\tb)

*SS26/R348*

~ OFFICIAL ~

inpatient program in a licensed acute care psychiatric facility or

in a licensed psychiatric residential treatment facility, before

the recipient reaches age twenty-one (21) or, if the recipient was

receiving the services immediately before he or she reached age

twenty-one (21), before the earlier of the date he or she no

longer requires the services or the date he or she reaches age

twenty-two (22), as provided by federal regulations.

after January 1, 2015, the division shall update the fair rental

reimbursement system for psychiatric residential treatment

facilities.

treatment days must be obtained as required by the division.

and after July 1, 2009, all state-owned and state-operated

facilities that provide inpatient psychiatric services to persons

under age twenty-one (21) who are eligible for Medicaid

reimbursement shall be reimbursed for those services on a full

reasonable cost basis.

From and

Precertification of inpatient days and residential

(b)

From

The division may reimburse for services

provided by a licensed freestanding psychiatric hospital to

Medicaid recipients over the age of twenty-one (21) in a method

and manner consistent with the provisions of Section 43-13-117.5.

(24)

[Deleted]

(25)

[Deleted]

(26)

Hospice care.

As used in this paragraph, the term

"hospice care" means a coordinated program of active professional

medical attention within the home and outpatient and inpatient
S. B. No. 2568
PAGE 26 (rdd\tb)

*SS26/R348*

~ OFFICIAL ~

care that treats the terminally ill patient and family as a unit,

employing a medically directed interdisciplinary team.

program provides relief of severe pain or other physical symptoms

and supportive care to meet the special needs arising out of

physical, psychological, spiritual, social and economic stresses

that are experienced during the final stages of illness and during

dying and bereavement and meets the Medicare requirements for

participation as a hospice as provided in federal regulations.

(27)

The

Group health plan premiums and cost-sharing if it

is cost-effective as defined by the United States Secretary of

Health and Human Services.

(28)

Other health insurance premiums that are

cost-effective as defined by the United States Secretary of Health

and Human Services.

before other insurance premiums can be paid.

(29)

Medicare eligible must have Medicare Part B

The Division of Medicaid may apply for a waiver

from the United States Department of Health and Human Services for

home- and community-based services for developmentally disabled

people using state funds that are provided from the appropriation

to the State Department of Mental Health and/or funds transferred

to the department by a political subdivision or instrumentality of

the state and used to match federal funds under a cooperative

agreement between the division and the department, provided that

funds for these services are specifically appropriated to the

S. B. No. 2568
PAGE 27 (rdd\tb)

*SS26/R348*

~ OFFICIAL ~

Department of Mental Health and/or transferred to the department

by a political subdivision or instrumentality of the state.

(30)

Pediatric skilled nursing services as determined

by the division and in a manner consistent with regulations

promulgated by the Mississippi State Department of Health.

(31)

Targeted case management services for children

with special needs, under waivers from the United States

Department of Health and Human Services, using state funds that

are provided from the appropriation to the Mississippi Department

of Human Services and used to match federal funds under a

cooperative agreement between the division and the department.

(32)

Care and services provided in Christian Science

Sanatoria listed and certified by the Commission for Accreditation

of Christian Science Nursing Organizations/Facilities, Inc.,

rendered in connection with treatment by prayer or spiritual means

to the extent that those services are subject to reimbursement

under Section 1903 of the federal Social Security Act.

(33)

Podiatrist services.

(34)

Assisted living services as provided through

home- and community-based services under Title XIX of the federal

Social Security Act, as amended, subject to the availability of

funds specifically appropriated for that purpose by the

Legislature.

(35)

Services and activities authorized in Sections

43-27-101 and 43-27-103, using state funds that are provided from
S. B. No. 2568
PAGE 28 (rdd\tb)

*SS26/R348*

~ OFFICIAL ~

the appropriation to the Mississippi Department of Human Services

and used to match federal funds under a cooperative agreement

between the division and the department.

(36)

Nonemergency transportation services for

Medicaid-eligible persons as determined by the division.

Committee shall conduct a performance evaluation of the

nonemergency transportation program to evaluate the administration

of the program and the providers of transportation services to

determine the most cost-effective ways of providing nonemergency

transportation services to the patients served under the program.

The performance evaluation shall be completed and provided to the

members of the Senate Medicaid Committee and the House Medicaid

Committee not later than January 1, 2019, and every two (2) years

thereafter.

(37)

[Deleted]

(38)

Chiropractic services.

The PEER

A chiropractor's manual

manipulation of the spine to correct a subluxation, if x-ray

demonstrates that a subluxation exists and if the subluxation has

resulted in a neuromusculoskeletal condition for which

manipulation is appropriate treatment, and related spinal x-rays

performed to document these conditions.

chiropractic services shall not exceed Seven Hundred Dollars

($700.00) per year per beneficiary.

(39)

Reimbursement for

Dually eligible Medicare/Medicaid beneficiaries.

The division shall pay the Medicare deductible and coinsurance
S. B. No. 2568
PAGE 29 (rdd\tb)

*SS26/R348*

~ OFFICIAL ~

amounts for services available under Medicare, as determined by

the division.

reimburse crossover claims for inpatient hospital services and

crossover claims covered under Medicare Part B in the same manner

that was in effect on January 1, 2008, unless specifically

authorized by the Legislature to change this method.

From and after July 1, 2009, the division shall

(40)

[Deleted]

(41)

Services provided by the State Department of

Rehabilitation Services for the care and rehabilitation of persons

with spinal cord injuries or traumatic brain injuries, as allowed

under waivers from the United States Department of Health and

Human Services, using up to seventy-five percent (75%) of the

funds that are appropriated to the Department of Rehabilitation

Services from the Spinal Cord and Head Injury Trust Fund

established under Section 37-33-261 and used to match federal

funds under a cooperative agreement between the division and the

department.

(42)

[Deleted]

(43)

The division shall provide reimbursement,

according to a payment schedule developed by the division, for

smoking cessation medications for pregnant women during their

pregnancy and other Medicaid-eligible women who are of

child-bearing age.

(44)

Nursing facility services for the severely

disabled.
S. B. No. 2568
PAGE 30 (rdd\tb)

*SS26/R348*

~ OFFICIAL ~

(a)

Severe disabilities include, but are not

limited to, spinal cord injuries, closed-head injuries and

ventilator-dependent patients.

(b)

Those services must be provided in a long-term

care nursing facility dedicated to the care and treatment of

persons with severe disabilities.

(45)

Physician assistant services.

Services furnished

by a physician assistant who is licensed by the State Board of

Medical Licensure and is practicing with physician supervision

under regulations adopted by the board, under regulations adopted

by the division.

exceed ninety percent (90%) of the reimbursement rate for

comparable services rendered by a physician.

provide for a reimbursement rate for physician assistant services

of up to one hundred percent (100%) or the reimbursement rate for

comparable services rendered by a physician for physician

assistant services that are provided after the normal working

hours of the physician assistant, as determined in accordance with

regulations of the division.

(46)

Reimbursement for those services shall not

The division may

The division shall make application to the federal

Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) for a waiver to

develop and provide services for children with serious emotional

disturbances as defined in Section 43-14-1(1), which may include

home- and community-based services, case management services or

managed care services through mental health providers certified by
S. B. No. 2568
PAGE 31 (rdd\tb)

*SS26/R348*

~ OFFICIAL ~

the Department of Mental Health.

provide services under this waivered program only if funds for

these services are specifically appropriated for this purpose by

the Legislature, or if funds are voluntarily provided by affected

agencies.

(47)

(a)

The division may implement and

The division may develop and implement

disease management programs for individuals with high-cost chronic

diseases and conditions, including the use of grants, waivers,

demonstrations or other projects as necessary.

(b)

Participation in any disease management

program implemented under this paragraph (47) is optional with the

individual.

in the disease management program in order to participate, and may

elect to discontinue participation in the program at any time.

An individual must affirmatively elect to participate

(48)

Pediatric long-term acute care hospital services.
(a)

Pediatric long-term acute care hospital

services means services provided to eligible persons under

twenty-one (21) years of age by a freestanding Medicare-certified

hospital that has an average length of inpatient stay greater than

twenty-five (25) days and that is primarily engaged in providing

chronic or long-term medical care to persons under twenty-one (21)

years of age.

(b)

The services under this paragraph (48) shall

be reimbursed as a separate category of hospital services.

S. B. No. 2568
PAGE 32 (rdd\tb)

*SS26/R348*

~ OFFICIAL ~

(49)

The division may establish copayments and/or

coinsurance for any Medicaid services for which copayments and/or

coinsurance are allowable under federal law or regulation.

(50)

Services provided by the State Department of

Rehabilitation Services for the care and rehabilitation of persons

who are deaf and blind, as allowed under waivers from the United

States Department of Health and Human Services to provide home-

and community-based services using state funds that are provided

from the appropriation to the State Department of Rehabilitation

Services or if funds are voluntarily provided by another agency.

(51)

Upon determination of Medicaid eligibility and in

association with annual redetermination of Medicaid eligibility,

beneficiaries shall be encouraged to undertake a physical

examination that will establish a base-line level of health and

identification of a usual and customary source of care (a medical

home) to aid utilization of disease management tools.

physical examination and utilization of these disease management

tools shall be consistent with current United States Preventive

Services Task Force or other recognized authority recommendations.

This

For persons who are determined ineligible for Medicaid, the

division will provide information and direction for accessing

medical care and services in the area of their residence.

(52)

Notwithstanding any provisions of this article,

the division may pay enhanced reimbursement fees related to trauma

care, as determined by the division in conjunction with the State
S. B. No. 2568
PAGE 33 (rdd\tb)

*SS26/R348*

~ OFFICIAL ~

Department of Health, using funds appropriated to the State

Department of Health for trauma care and services and used to

match federal funds under a cooperative agreement between the

division and the State Department of Health.

conjunction with the State Department of Health, may use grants,

waivers, demonstrations, enhanced reimbursements, Upper Payment

Limits Programs, supplemental payments, or other projects as

necessary in the development and implementation of this

reimbursement program.

(53)

The division, in

Targeted case management services for high-cost

beneficiaries may be developed by the division for all services

under this section.

(54)

[Deleted]

(55)

Therapy services.

The plan of care for therapy

services may be developed to cover a period of treatment for up to

six (6) months, but in no event shall the plan of care exceed a

six-month period of treatment.

must be indicated on the initial plan of care and must be updated

with each subsequent revised plan of care.

necessity, the division shall approve certification periods for

less than or up to six (6) months, but in no event shall the

certification period exceed the period of treatment indicated on

the plan of care.

services shall be consistent with the appeal process in federal

regulations.
S. B. No. 2568
PAGE 34 (rdd\tb)

The projected period of treatment

Based on medical

The appeal process for any reduction in therapy

*SS26/R348*

~ OFFICIAL ~

(56)

Prescribed pediatric extended care centers

services for medically dependent or technologically dependent

children with complex medical conditions that require continual

care as prescribed by the child's attending physician, as

determined by the division.

(57)

No Medicaid benefit shall restrict coverage for

medically appropriate treatment prescribed by a physician and

agreed to by a fully informed individual, or if the individual

lacks legal capacity to consent by a person who has legal

authority to consent on his or her behalf, based on an

individual's diagnosis with a terminal condition.

paragraph (57), "terminal condition" means any aggressive

malignancy, chronic end-stage cardiovascular or cerebral vascular

disease, or any other disease, illness or condition which a

physician diagnoses as terminal.

(58)

As used in this

Treatment services for persons with opioid

dependency or other highly addictive substance use disorders.

division is authorized to reimburse eligible providers for

treatment of opioid dependency and other highly addictive

substance use disorders, as determined by the division.

related to these conditions shall not count against any physician

visit limit imposed under this section.

(59)

Treatment

The division shall allow beneficiaries between the

ages of ten (10) and eighteen (18) years to receive vaccines

through a pharmacy venue.
S. B. No. 2568
PAGE 35 (rdd\tb)

The

The division and the State Department

*SS26/R348*

~ OFFICIAL ~

of Health shall coordinate and notify OB-GYN providers that the

Vaccines for Children program is available to providers free of

charge.

(60)

Border city university-affiliated pediatric

teaching hospital.

(a)

Payments may only be made to a border city

university-affiliated pediatric teaching hospital if the Centers

for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) approve an increase in

the annual request for the provider payment initiative authorized

under 42 CFR Section 438.6(c) in an amount equal to or greater

than the estimated annual payment to be made to the border city

university-affiliated pediatric teaching hospital.

shall be based on the hospital's prior year Mississippi managed

care utilization.

(b)

The estimate

As used in this paragraph (60), the term

"border city university-affiliated pediatric teaching hospital"

means an out-of-state hospital located within a city bordering the

eastern bank of the Mississippi River and the State of Mississippi

that submits to the division a copy of a current and effective

affiliation agreement with an accredited university and other

documentation establishing that the hospital is

university-affiliated, is licensed and designated as a pediatric

hospital or pediatric primary hospital within its home state,

maintains at least five (5) different pediatric specialty training

programs, and maintains at least one hundred (100) operated beds
S. B. No. 2568
PAGE 36 (rdd\tb)

*SS26/R348*

~ OFFICIAL ~

dedicated exclusively for the treatment of patients under the age

of twenty-one (21) years.

(c)

The cost of providing services to Mississippi

Medicaid beneficiaries under the age of twenty-one (21) years who

are treated by a border city university-affiliated pediatric

teaching hospital shall not exceed the cost of providing the same

services to individuals in hospitals in the state.

(d)

It is the intent of the Legislature that

payments shall not result in any in-state hospital receiving

payments lower than they would otherwise receive if not for the

payments made to any border city university-affiliated pediatric

teaching hospital.

(e)

July 1, 2024.

(61)

This paragraph (60) shall stand repealed on

Services described in Section 41-140-3 that are

provided by certified community health workers employed and

supervised by a Medicaid provider.

services shall be provided only if the division has received

approval from the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services for a

state plan amendment, waiver or alternative payment model for

services delivered by certified community health workers.

(62)

Reimbursement for these

Essential disability-related services and supports

for disabled children age eighteen (18) or under.

shall provide coverage and reimbursement, in a manner as

determined by the division, for essential disability-related
S. B. No. 2568
PAGE 37 (rdd\tb)

*SS26/R348*

The division

~ OFFICIAL ~

services and supports, including, but not limited to, augmentative

and alternative communication devices, in-home nursing care,

behavioral therapy, developmental resources and services, diapers,

and necessary medical supplies for disabled children age eighteen

(18) or under.

for coverage and reimbursement, and repeated or unsupported

denials shall be prohibited, under this paragraph (62).

(B)

Timely authorization standards shall be required

Planning and development districts participating in the

home- and community-based services program for the elderly and

disabled as case management providers shall be reimbursed for case

management services at the maximum rate approved by the Centers

for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS).

(C)

The division may pay to those providers who participate

in and accept patient referrals from the division's emergency room

redirection program a percentage, as determined by the division,

of savings achieved according to the performance measures and

reduction of costs required of that program.

health centers may participate in the emergency room redirection

program, and the division may pay those centers a percentage of

any savings to the Medicaid program achieved by the centers'

accepting patient referrals through the program, as provided in

this subsection (C).

(D)

(1)

Federally qualified

As used in this subsection (D), the following terms

shall be defined as provided in this paragraph, except as

otherwise provided in this subsection:
S. B. No. 2568
PAGE 38 (rdd\tb)

*SS26/R348*

~ OFFICIAL ~

(a)

"Committees" means the Medicaid Committees of

the House of Representatives and the Senate, and "committee" means

either one of those committees.

(b)

"Rate change" means an increase, decrease or

other change in the payments or rates of reimbursement, or a

change in any payment methodology that results in an increase,

decrease or other change in the payments or rates of

reimbursement, to any Medicaid provider that renders any services

authorized to be provided to Medicaid recipients under this

article.

(2)

Whenever the Division of Medicaid proposes a rate

change, the division shall give notice to the chairmen of the

committees at least thirty (30) calendar days before the proposed

rate change is scheduled to take effect.

furnish the chairmen with a concise summary of each proposed rate

change along with the notice, and shall furnish the chairmen with

a copy of any proposed rate change upon request.

also shall provide a summary and copy of any proposed rate change

to any other member of the Legislature upon request.

(3)

The division shall

The division

If the chairman of either committee or both

chairmen jointly object to the proposed rate change or any part

thereof, the chairman or chairmen shall notify the division and

provide the reasons for their objection in writing not later than

seven (7) calendar days after receipt of the notice from the

division.

The chairman or chairmen may make written

S. B. No. 2568
PAGE 39 (rdd\tb)

*SS26/R348*

~ OFFICIAL ~

recommendations to the division for changes to be made to a

proposed rate change.

(4)

(a)

The chairman of either committee or both

chairmen jointly may hold a committee meeting to review a proposed

rate change.

meeting, they shall notify the division of their intention in

writing within seven (7) calendar days after receipt of the notice

from the division, and shall set the date and time for the meeting

in their notice to the division, which shall not be later than

fourteen (14) calendar days after receipt of the notice from the

division.

If either chairman or both chairmen decide to hold a

(b)

After the committee meeting, the committee or

committees may object to the proposed rate change or any part

thereof.

and the reasons for their objection in writing not later than

seven (7) calendar days after the meeting.

committees may make written recommendations to the division for

changes to be made to a proposed rate change.

The committee or committees shall notify the division

(5)

The committee or

If both chairmen notify the division in writing

within seven (7) calendar days after receipt of the notice from

the division that they do not object to the proposed rate change

and will not be holding a meeting to review the proposed rate

change, the proposed rate change will take effect on the original

date as scheduled by the division or on such other date as

specified by the division.
S. B. No. 2568
PAGE 40 (rdd\tb)

*SS26/R348*

~ OFFICIAL ~

(6)

(a)

If there are any objections to a proposed rate

change or any part thereof from either or both of the chairmen or

the committees, the division may withdraw the proposed rate

change, make any of the recommended changes to the proposed rate

change, or not make any changes to the proposed rate change.

(b)

If the division does not make any changes to

the proposed rate change, it shall notify the chairmen of that

fact in writing, and the proposed rate change shall take effect on

the original date as scheduled by the division or on such other

date as specified by the division.

(c)

If the division makes any changes to the

proposed rate change, the division shall notify the chairmen of

its actions in writing, and the revised proposed rate change shall

take effect on the date as specified by the division.

(7)

Nothing in this subsection (D) shall be construed

as giving the chairmen or the committees any authority to veto,

nullify or revise any rate change proposed by the division.

authority of the chairmen or the committees under this subsection

shall be limited to reviewing, making objections to and making

recommendations for changes to rate changes proposed by the

division.

(E)

The

Notwithstanding any provision of this article, no new

groups or categories of recipients and new types of care and

services may be added without enabling legislation from the

Mississippi Legislature, except that the division may authorize
S. B. No. 2568
PAGE 41 (rdd\tb)

*SS26/R348*

~ OFFICIAL ~

those changes without enabling legislation when the addition of

recipients or services is ordered by a court of proper authority.

(F)

The executive director shall keep the Governor advised

on a timely basis of the funds available for expenditure and the

projected expenditures.

this article, if current or projected expenditures of the division

are reasonably anticipated to exceed the amount of funds

appropriated to the division for any fiscal year, the Governor,

after consultation with the executive director, shall take all

appropriate measures to reduce costs, which may include, but are

not limited to:

(1)

Notwithstanding any other provisions of

Reducing or discontinuing any or all services that

are deemed to be optional under Title XIX of the Social Security

Act;

(2)

Reducing reimbursement rates for any or all service

(3)

Imposing additional assessments on health care

providers; or

(4)

types;

Any additional cost-containment measures deemed

appropriate by the Governor.

To the extent allowed under federal law, any reduction to

services or reimbursement rates under this subsection (F) shall be

accompanied by a reduction, to the fullest allowable amount, to

the profit margin and administrative fee portions of capitated

S. B. No. 2568
PAGE 42 (rdd\tb)

*SS26/R348*

~ OFFICIAL ~

payments to organizations described in paragraph (1) of subsection

(H).

Beginning in fiscal year 2010 and in fiscal years thereafter,

when Medicaid expenditures are projected to exceed funds available

for the fiscal year, the division shall submit the expected

shortfall information to the PEER Committee not later than

December 1 of the year in which the shortfall is projected to

occur.

report its findings to the Legislative Budget Office not later

than January 7 in any year.

(G)

PEER shall review the computations of the division and

Notwithstanding any other provision of this article, it

shall be the duty of each provider participating in the Medicaid

program to keep and maintain books, documents and other records as

prescribed by the Division of Medicaid in accordance with federal

laws and regulations.

(H)

(1)

Notwithstanding any other provision of this

article, the division is authorized to implement (a) a managed

care program, (b) a coordinated care program, (c) a coordinated

care organization program, (d) a health maintenance organization

program, (e) a patient-centered medical home program, (f) an

accountable care organization program, (g) provider-sponsored

health plan, or (h) any combination of the above programs.

condition for the approval of any program under this subsection

(H)(1), the division shall require that no managed care program,

coordinated care program, coordinated care organization program,
S. B. No. 2568
PAGE 43 (rdd\tb)

*SS26/R348*

~ OFFICIAL ~

As a

health maintenance organization program, or provider-sponsored

health plan may:

(a)

Pay providers at a rate that is less than the

Medicaid All Patient Refined Diagnosis Related Groups (APR-DRG)

reimbursement rate;

(b)

Override the medical decisions of hospital

physicians or staff regarding patients admitted to a hospital for

an emergency medical condition as defined by 42 US Code Section

1395dd.

review of the appropriateness of the determination that an

emergency medical condition exists by chart review or coding

algorithm, nor does it prohibit prior authorization for

nonemergency hospital admissions;

(c)

normal Medicaid reimbursement rate.

Legislature that all managed care entities described in this

subsection (H), in collaboration with the division, develop and

implement innovative payment models that incentivize improvements

in health care quality, outcomes, or value, as determined by the

division.

care, coordinated care, provider-sponsored health plan, or similar

contractor shall not be conditioned on the provider's agreement to

accept such alternative payment models;

This restriction (b) does not prohibit the retrospective

It is the intent of the

Participation in the provider network of any managed

Pay providers at a rate that is less than the

(d)

Implement a prior authorization and

utilization review program for medical services, transportation
S. B. No. 2568
PAGE 44 (rdd\tb)

*SS26/R348*

~ OFFICIAL ~

services and prescription drugs that is more stringent than the

prior authorization processes used by the division in its

administration of the Medicaid program.

2, 2021, the contractors that are receiving capitated payments

under a managed care delivery system established under this

subsection (H) shall submit a report to the Chairmen of the House

and Senate Medicaid Committees on the status of the prior

authorization and utilization review program for medical services,

transportation services and prescription drugs that is required to

be implemented under this subparagraph (d);

Not later than December

(e)

[Deleted]

(f)

Implement a preferred drug list that is more

stringent than the mandatory preferred drug list established by

the division under subsection (A)(9) of this section;

(g)

Implement a policy which denies beneficiaries

with hemophilia access to the federally funded hemophilia

treatment centers as part of the Medicaid Managed Care network of

providers.

Each health maintenance organization, coordinated care

organization, provider-sponsored health plan, or other

organization paid for services on a capitated basis by the

division under any managed care program or coordinated care

program implemented by the division under this section shall use a

clear set of level of care guidelines in the determination of

medical necessity and in all utilization management practices,
S. B. No. 2568
PAGE 45 (rdd\tb)

*SS26/R348*

~ OFFICIAL ~

including the prior authorization process, concurrent reviews,

retrospective reviews and payments, that are consistent with

widely accepted professional standards of care.

participating in a managed care program or coordinated care

program implemented by the division may not use any additional

criteria that would result in denial of care that would be

determined appropriate and, therefore, medically necessary under

those levels of care guidelines.

(2)

Organizations

Notwithstanding any provision of this section, the

recipients eligible for enrollment into a Medicaid Managed Care

Program authorized under this subsection (H) may include only

those categories of recipients eligible for participation in the

Medicaid Managed Care Program as of January 1, 2021, the

Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP), and the CMS-approved

Section 1115 demonstration waivers in operation as of January 1,

2021.

be implemented by the division without enabling legislation from

the Mississippi Legislature.

No expansion of Medicaid Managed Care Program contracts may

(3)

(a)

Any contractors receiving capitated payments

under a managed care delivery system established in this section

shall provide to the Legislature and the division statistical data

to be shared with provider groups in order to improve patient

access, appropriate utilization, cost savings and health outcomes

not later than October 1 of each year.

contractor shall disclose to the Chairmen of the Senate and House
S. B. No. 2568
PAGE 46 (rdd\tb)

*SS26/R348*

Additionally, each

~ OFFICIAL ~

Medicaid Committees the administrative expenses costs for the

prior calendar year, and the number of full-equivalent employees

located in the State of Mississippi dedicated to the Medicaid and

CHIP lines of business as of June 30 of the current year.

(b)

The division and the contractors participating

in the managed care program, a coordinated care program or a

provider-sponsored health plan shall be subject to annual program

reviews or audits performed by the Office of the State Auditor,

the PEER Committee, the Department of Insurance and/or independent

third parties.

(c)

limited to, at least two (2) of the following items:

Those reviews shall include, but not be

(i)

The financial benefit to the State of

Mississippi of the managed care program,

(ii)

The difference between the premiums paid

to the managed care contractors and the payments made by those

contractors to health care providers,

(iii)

required under the contracts,

Administrative expense allocation

(v)

Whether nonprovider payments assigned as

medical expenses are appropriate,

(iv)
methodologies,

Compliance with performance measures

(vi)

Capitated arrangements with related

party subcontractors,
S. B. No. 2568
PAGE 47 (rdd\tb)

*SS26/R348*

~ OFFICIAL ~

Reasonableness of corporate

(viii)

Value-added benefits and the extent to

allocations,

(vii)

which they are used,

(ix)

oversight, including subcontractor review,

(x)

Whether health care outcomes have been

(xi)

The most common claim denial codes to

improved, and

The effectiveness of subcontractor

determine the reasons for the denials.
The audit reports shall be considered public documents and
shall be posted in their entirety on the division's website.
(4)

All health maintenance organizations, coordinated

care organizations, provider-sponsored health plans, or other

organizations paid for services on a capitated basis by the

division under any managed care program or coordinated care

program implemented by the division under this section shall

reimburse all providers in those organizations at rates no lower

than those provided under this section for beneficiaries who are

not participating in those programs.

(5)

No health maintenance organization, coordinated

care organization, provider-sponsored health plan, or other

organization paid for services on a capitated basis by the

division under any managed care program or coordinated care

program implemented by the division under this section shall
S. B. No. 2568
PAGE 48 (rdd\tb)

*SS26/R348*

~ OFFICIAL ~

require its providers or beneficiaries to use any pharmacy that

ships, mails or delivers prescription drugs or legend drugs or

devices.

(6)

(a)

Not later than December 1, 2021, the

contractors who are receiving capitated payments under a managed

care delivery system established under this subsection (H) shall

develop and implement a uniform credentialing process for

providers.

who meets the criteria for credentialing will be credentialed with

all of those contractors and no such provider will have to be

separately credentialed by any individual contractor in order to

receive reimbursement from the contractor.

December 2, 2021, those contractors shall submit a report to the

Chairmen of the House and Senate Medicaid Committees on the status

of the uniform credentialing process for providers that is

required under this subparagraph (a).

Under that uniform credentialing process, a provider

(b)

Not later than

If those contractors have not implemented a

uniform credentialing process as described in subparagraph (a) by

December 1, 2021, the division shall develop and implement, not

later than July 1, 2022, a single, consolidated credentialing

process by which all providers will be credentialed.

division's single, consolidated credentialing process, no such

contractor shall require its providers to be separately

credentialed by the contractor in order to receive reimbursement

from the contractor, but those contractors shall recognize the
S. B. No. 2568
PAGE 49 (rdd\tb)

*SS26/R348*

~ OFFICIAL ~

Under the

credentialing of the providers by the division's credentialing

process.

(c)

The division shall require a uniform provider

credentialing application that shall be used in the credentialing

process that is established under subparagraph (a) or (b).

contractor or division, as applicable, has not approved or denied

the provider credentialing application within sixty (60) days of

receipt of the completed application that includes all required

information necessary for credentialing, then the contractor or

division, upon receipt of a written request from the applicant and

within five (5) business days of its receipt, shall issue a

temporary provider credential/enrollment to the applicant if the

applicant has a valid Mississippi professional or occupational

license to provide the health care services to which the

credential/enrollment would apply.

shall not issue a temporary credential/enrollment if the applicant

has reported on the application a history of medical or other

professional or occupational malpractice claims, a history of

substance abuse or mental health issues, a criminal record, or a

history of medical or other licensing board, state or federal

disciplinary action, including any suspension from participation

in a federal or state program.

credential/enrollment shall be effective upon issuance and shall

remain in effect until the provider's credentialing/enrollment

application is approved or denied by the contractor or division.
S. B. No. 2568
PAGE 50 (rdd\tb)

*SS26/R348*

If the

The contractor or the division

The temporary

~ OFFICIAL ~

The contractor or division shall render a final decision regarding

credentialing/enrollment of the provider within sixty (60) days

from the date that the temporary provider credential/enrollment is

issued to the applicant.

(d)

If the contractor or division does not render

a final decision regarding credentialing/enrollment of the

provider within the time required in subparagraph (c), the

provider shall be deemed to be credentialed by and enrolled with

all of the contractors and eligible to receive reimbursement from

the contractors.

(7)

(a)

Each contractor that is receiving capitated

payments under a managed care delivery system established under

this subsection (H) shall provide to each provider for whom the

contractor has denied the coverage of a procedure that was ordered

or requested by the provider for or on behalf of a patient, a

letter that provides a detailed explanation of the reasons for the

denial of coverage of the procedure and the name and the

credentials of the person who denied the coverage.

shall be sent to the provider in electronic format.

(b)

The letter

After a contractor that is receiving capitated

payments under a managed care delivery system established under

this subsection (H) has denied coverage for a claim submitted by a

provider, the contractor shall issue to the provider within sixty

(60) days a final ruling of denial of the claim that allows the

provider to have a state fair hearing and/or agency appeal with
S. B. No. 2568
PAGE 51 (rdd\tb)

*SS26/R348*

~ OFFICIAL ~

the division.

denial within sixty (60) days as required by this subparagraph

(b), the provider's claim shall be deemed to be automatically

approved and the contractor shall pay the amount of the claim to

the provider.

If a contractor does not issue a final ruling of

(c)

After a contractor has issued a final ruling

of denial of a claim submitted by a provider, the division shall

conduct a state fair hearing and/or agency appeal on the matter of

the disputed claim between the contractor and the provider within

sixty (60) days, and shall render a decision on the matter within

thirty (30) days after the date of the hearing and/or appeal.

(8)

It is the intention of the Legislature that the

division evaluate the feasibility of using a single vendor to

administer pharmacy benefits provided under a managed care

delivery system established under this subsection (H).

of pharmacy benefits shall cooperate with the division in any

transition to a carve-out of pharmacy benefits under managed care.

(9)

Providers

The division shall evaluate the feasibility of

using a single vendor to administer dental benefits provided under

a managed care delivery system established in this subsection (H).

Providers of dental benefits shall cooperate with the division in

any transition to a carve-out of dental benefits under managed

care.

(10)

It is the intent of the Legislature that any

contractor receiving capitated payments under a managed care
S. B. No. 2568
PAGE 52 (rdd\tb)

*SS26/R348*

~ OFFICIAL ~

delivery system established in this section shall implement

innovative programs to improve the health and well-being of

members diagnosed with prediabetes and diabetes.

(11)

It is the intent of the Legislature that any

contractors receiving capitated payments under a managed care

delivery system established under this subsection (H) shall work

with providers of Medicaid services to improve the utilization of

long-acting reversible contraceptives (LARCs).

December 1, 2021, any contractors receiving capitated payments

under a managed care delivery system established under this

subsection (H) shall provide to the Chairmen of the House and

Senate Medicaid Committees and House and Senate Public Health

Committees a report of LARC utilization for State Fiscal Years

through 2020 as well as any programs, initiatives, or efforts

made by the contractors and providers to increase LARC

utilization.

information for subsequent state fiscal years.

(12)

Not later than

This report shall be updated annually to include

The division is authorized to make not more than

one (1) emergency extension of the contracts that are in effect on

July 1, 2021, with contractors who are receiving capitated

payments under a managed care delivery system established under

this subsection (H), as provided in this paragraph (12).

maximum period of any such extension shall be one (1) year, and

under any such extensions, the contractors shall be subject to all

of the provisions of this subsection (H).
S. B. No. 2568
PAGE 53 (rdd\tb)

*SS26/R348*

The

The extended contracts

~ OFFICIAL ~

shall be revised to incorporate any provisions of this subsection

(H).

(I)

[Deleted]

(J)

There shall be no cuts in inpatient and outpatient

hospital payments, or allowable days or volumes, as long as the

hospital assessment provided in Section 43-13-145 is in effect.

This subsection (J) shall not apply to decreases in payments that

are a result of:

under the APR-DRG or APC models, or a managed care program or

similar model described in subsection (H) of this section.

(K)

reduced hospital admissions, audits or payments

In the negotiation and execution of such contracts

involving services performed by actuarial firms, the Executive

Director of the Division of Medicaid may negotiate a limitation on

liability to the state of prospective contractors.

(L)

The Division of Medicaid shall reimburse for services

provided to eligible Medicaid beneficiaries by a licensed birthing

center in a method and manner to be determined by the division in

accordance with federal laws and federal regulations.

division shall seek any necessary waivers, make any required

amendments to its State Plan or revise any contracts authorized

under subsection (H) of this section as necessary to provide the

services authorized under this subsection.

subsection, the term "birthing centers" shall have the meaning as

defined in Section 41-77-1(a), which is a publicly or privately

owned facility, place or institution constructed, renovated,
S. B. No. 2568
PAGE 54 (rdd\tb)

*SS26/R348*

The

As used in this

~ OFFICIAL ~

leased or otherwise established where nonemergency births are

planned to occur away from the mother's usual residence following

a documented period of prenatal care for a normal uncomplicated

pregnancy which has been determined to be low risk through a

formal risk-scoring examination.

(M)

SECTION 3.

This section shall stand repealed on July 1, 2028.
This act shall take effect and be in force from

and after July 1, 2026.

S. B. No. 2568
PAGE 55 (rdd\tb)

~ OFFICIAL ~
ST: Essential disability-related services for
children; require Medicaid and private insurance
coverage.

*SS26/R348*
