HB404

BYZN6JQ-1

By Representative Rafferty

RFD: County and Municipal Government

First Read: 05-Feb-26

(N & P)

Page 0

BYZN6JQ-1 02/05/2026 VSM (L)ma 2026-501

SYNOPSIS:
This bill would authorize a Class 1 municipality

to create nonprofit community land trusts to provide

affordable housing to low-income and moderate-income

families through long-term ground leases between the

community land trusts and qualifying lessees.

This bill would require a community land trust

to be membership-based with open meetings and a board

of directors appointed by the mayor and confirmed by

the city council. This bill would authorize a community

land trust to acquire and lease real property, make

improvements to residential real property, and enter

into 99-year ground leases with qualified low-income

and moderate-income lessees.

This bill would also establish an option for the

community land trust and the municipality to purchase

certain properties or improvements to the real

properties, to allow property tax exemptions for

certain property owned by the trust, and to establish

qualifications for potential lessees.

A BILL

TO BE ENTITLED

AN ACT
Page 1

Relating to counties and municipalities; to authorize

Class 1 municipalities to establish and regulate a nonprofit

community land trust for the purpose of creating affordable

housing alternatives; to allow municipalities to appoint a

community land trust board of directors; to allow a community

land trust to acquire and lease real property to low-income

and moderate-income families; and to allow property tax

exemptions for certain trust property.

BE IT ENACTED BY THE LEGISLATURE OF ALABAMA:

Section 1. This chapter shall be known and may be cited
as the Alabama Community Land Trust Act of 2026.
Section 2. This chapter applies only to Class 1
municipalities.
Section 3. When used in this chapter, the following
words have the following meanings:
(1) AFFORDABLE. For dwelling units available for lease,

the insurance, utilities, and other fees constitute no more

than 30 percent of the annual household income for low-income

or moderate-income families as defined in this section.

(2) BOARD OF DIRECTORS. The governing body of a

community land trust elected and formed in accordance with the

bylaws of such organization.

(3) CLASS 1 MUNICIPALITY. A Class 1 municipality as
defined in Section 11-40-12, Code of Alabama 1975.

(4) COMMUNITY LAND TRUST. An entity that:

a. Provides affordable housing to low-income and

moderate-income families through ground leases; and
Page 2

b. Is organized by a Class 1 municipality.

(5) FAMILY. A household consisting of one or more

individuals.

(6) GROUND LEASE. A lease between a community land

trust and a tenant of real property owned by a community land

trust that is designed to ensure that the property remains

affordable to low-income and moderate-income families.

(7) LIMITED EQUITY PRICE. A price for the sale of any

improvement located on community land trust-owned land that is

determined by means of a resale-restricted formula.

(8) LOW-INCOME FAMILY. A family household with an

aggregate income at or below 80 percent of the metro

statistical area median income adjusted for family size, as

determined by the Department of Housing and Urban Development

(HUD).

(9) MODERATE-INCOME FAMILY. A family household with an

aggregate income at or below 120 percent of metro statistical

area income adjusted for family size, as determined by HUD.

(10) ORGANIZING MUNICIPALITY. The Class 1 municipality

creating the community land trust pursuant to this chapter.

(11) PREEMPTIVE PURCHASE OPTION. The right of a

community land trust or the organizing municipality to

purchase the improvements constructed on the community land

trust-owned real property pursuant to a ground lease prior to

any other party.

(12) PROCEED-SHARING PROVISIONS. The resale formula

provisions in the ground lease that establishes the maximum

resale price and determines the allocation of sale proceeds
Page 3

between the seller and the preservation of affordability for

future buyers.

(13) QUALIFYING LESSEE. An individual or family that

meets the criteria of low-income family or moderate-income

family, as defined in this section, on the effective date of

the lease.

(14) REAL PROPERTY. Both land and improvements,
including a leasehold interest in real property.

(15) RESALE-RESTRICTED FORMULA. A formula designed to

maintain durable affordability of community land trust-owned

real property.
(16) SPECIFIED INTEREST. The leasehold interest in the

real property and associated structural improvements as

distinct from the fee simple interest in the land retained by

the community land trust.

Section 4. The governing body of a Class 1 municipality

within the State of Alabama is hereby authorized to create, by

ordinance, one or more community land trusts to operate within

its jurisdiction.

Section 5. (a) The purpose of a community land trust is
to:

(1) Provide affordable housing for low-income and
moderate-income families;

(2) Keep housing affordable for future residents; and

(3) Capture the value of public investment for

long-term community benefit.
(b) The bylaws of a community land trust shall provide

that:
Page 4

(1) The organization is membership-based;

(2) Corporate membership is open to the general public;

(3) Membership meetings are open to the general public,

including nonmembers;
(4) The board of directors shall consist of seven
directors serving four-year terms.

a. Four directors shall be appointed by the governing

body of the organizing municipality and shall have expertise

and experience in careers or activities involving real estate,

property management, finance, real estate law, transit

planning, residential contracting, banking, architecture, or

city planning.

b. Three directors shall be appointed by the mayor of

the organizing municipality. One director shall be a

professional in the finance or banking industry with

experience in affordable and low-income housing, lending,

finance, or tax credits for residential and commercial

properties. One director shall be a registered architect,

landscape architect, or city planner with experience in long

range planning and neighborhood/community master planning. One

director shall be a specialist in housing-related activities

with experience in developing affordable housing for

low-income and moderate-income families or a member of a

nonprofit entity or organization involved in affordable

housing for residents of the organizing municipality.

c. The board of directors shall reflect the diversity

of the community served by the community land trust to the

extent practicable.
Page 5

(5)a. The board of directors shall have the authority

to establish, through resolutions or bylaws, provisions for

director compensation, including salary, per diem, and travel

expenses.

b. The board of directors shall have the authority to

employ staff through resolutions adopted by the board.

Employees of the community land trust shall not be subject to

the Merit System Act.

c. A majority of the directors then in office shall
constitute a quorum for the transaction of business.

d. Directors may participate in meetings by

teleconference or other electronic means, and such

participation shall constitute presence at the meeting.

e. Directors shall be immune from civil liability for

acts or omissions made in good faith within the scope of their

official duties, except for acts or omissions involving

willful misconduct, gross negligence, or fraud.

(c) Upon dissolution, the assets of the community land

trust shall be transferred in accordance with Section 12 of

this act.

Section 6. (a) A community land trust may have any or

all of the powers permitted to a nonprofit corporation under

Chapter 3 of Title 10A, Code of Alabama 1975.

(b) A community land trust may also:

(1) Acquire real property for residential purposes;

(2) Lease residential property;

(3) Acquire an interest in property for construction of

improvements to residential real property;
Page 6

(4) Make improvements to real property for residential

purposes;

(5) Enter into ground leases with qualified lessees as

defined in this act and any other agreements or real property

transactions supported by criteria established in the ground

lease for the transfer of an interest in residential real

property;

(6) Engage in other activities related to the sale,

leasing, management, maintenance, and preservation of

properties under the control of the community land trust.

(7) Accept funding from the organizing municipality and

any other source authorized under Chapter 3, Title 10A, Code

of Alabama 1975.
Section 7. (a) A community land trust may lease housing

units only to qualifying lessees.

(b) Notwithstanding subsection (a), for multi-unit

dwellings, housing units located on one or more tracts of land

owned by the community land trust that constitute a contiguous

geographic area or are located within the same platted

subdivision:

(1) At least 80 percent of the community land trust's

leased dwelling units shall be leased to low-income families;

and

(2) Up to 20 percent of the community land trust's

leased dwelling units may be leased to moderate-income

families.

(c) A community land trust shall determine qualifying
lessee status at the time of lease. The lease may be
Page 7

automatically renewed without redetermining the lessee's

qualifying status.

Section 8. (a) Each ground lease shall grant the

community land trust and organizing municipality the right to

purchase all improvements to the real property.

(b)(1) The community land trust shall have 120 days to

exercise its purchase option from the date notice of the event

that triggers the purchase option is received.

(2) If the community land trust fails to exercise its

option within those 120 days or declines the option, the

organizing municipality shall have an additional 120 days to

exercise the purchase option from the date notice is received

that the community land trust has not executed or declined its

purchase option.

(c)(1) The community land trust may assign its purchase

option to a qualifying owner regardless of any other criteria

established in the ground lease for the transfer of an

interest in residential real property. Any sale pursuant to

the assignment must be completed no more than 60 days from the

assignment or the purchase option shall be considered to have

not been excercised if more than 120 days have passed from the

notice.

(2) The organizing municipality may assign its purchase

option to a qualifying owner regardless of any additional

criteria established in the ground lease for the transfer of

an interest in residential real property. Any sale pursuant to

the assignment must be completed within 60 days of the

assignment or the purchase option shall be considered to have
Page 8

not been exercised if more than 120 days have passed from the

notice.

(d)(1) The failure of a community land trust to

exercise the preemptive purchase option does not prohibit the

community land trust from exercising any other right

established in the ground lease, including the right to share

in the proceeds of the first sale to a purchaser following the

failure of the community land trust to exercise its right to

repurchase.

(2) If the community land trust and organizing

municipality both fail to exercise or decline their purchase

option within the prescribed time period, the homeowner shall

be permitted to sell the improvements to any seller at a fair

market value.

(3) Only the first arm's-length, third-party

transaction of the specified interest in real property after

the community land trust and organizing municipality fails to

exercise or declines their purchase option is subject to the

proceed-sharing provisions of the ground lease.

(4) A second or subsequent purchaser who acquires the

specified interest in the real property in an arm's-length,

third-party transaction for a fair market value receives title

free of any rights established in the ground lease or deed of

conveyance that would otherwise have been enforceable by the

community land trust.

(5) Notwithstanding subdivision (4), if a community

land trust home is subject to a ground lease at the time a

subsequent purchaser who acquires the specified interest in
Page 9

the real property in an arm's-length, third-party transaction

for a fair market value after the community land trust and

organizing municipality have not exercised their preemptive

purchase options, the purchaser shall pay the monthly ground

lease fee in effect at the time of sale for the remaining term

of the lease unless otherwise agreed to by the subsequent

purchaser and the community land trust or their successors in

interest.

(6) The community land trust, or its successor in

interest, shall not have the right to eject the subsequent

purchaser for any reason other than failure to pay the monthly

ground lease fee amount.

Section 9. (a) A ground lease shall have a maximum term

of 99 years and may be renewed under conditions set forth in

the ground lease.
(b) A ground lease shall include, but is not limited

to, the following provisions:

(1) The term and, if applicable, renewability of the
ground lease.

(2) The resale-restricted formula.

(3) A community land trust's preemptive purchase option

right.
(4) An organizing municipality's preemptive purchase
option right.
(5) Any term that, if violated, is grounds for

cancellation of the ground lease.

(6) Occupancy requirements.

(7) Amount of the ground lease fee and the conditions
Page 10

under which it may be increased.
(8) The party responsible for payment of applicable
property taxes.
(c) A community land trust shall record any ground
lease in its entirety.

Section 10. (a) For real property acquired for

residential purposes, owned by a community land trust, not

subject to a ground lease, the real property shall be exempted

from all property taxes for a period not to exceed three years

if the community land trust intends to transfer or lease the

home in accordance with Section 5, and is either:

(1) Conducting construction on the real property,

including, but not limited to, construction of a new

residential property, rehabilitation of an existing property,

and related tasks; or

(2) Attempting to transfer or lease the home in
accordance with Section 5.

(b) For real property subject to a ground lease that is

designed to preserve affordability for no more than 99 years,

the real property shall be assessed and taxed in accordance

with this section, provided:

(1) At the time the ground lease is made, the buyer is
a qualifying owner; and

(2) The dwelling unit is owner-occupied.

(c)(1) In determining the initial property tax

assessment valuation, community land trust real property shall

be assessed at the sale price.

(2) In subsequent reassessments, the community land
Page 11

trust real property shall be assessed at the lesser of:

a. The limited equity price as determined by the

resale-restricted formula; or

b. The fair market value using an income method of
valuation.

(d) Leased community land trust residential property

shall be assessed utilizing an income method of valuation. The

assessor must base the assessment of the property upon the

actual income generated by the property and may not take into

consideration in reaching a decision the amount of any federal

or state income tax credits received during development or

sale.

Section 11. (a) A nonprofit organization that loses its

nonprofit status may no longer operate as a community land

trust.

(b) After losing its nonprofit status, the organization

must transfer, within 120 days and without financial

compensation other than incidental associated costs, its

interest in any ground leases, in order of priority, to

either:

(1) The organizing municipality; or

(2) A municipal entity or a nonprofit affordable

housing organization designated by the organizing municipality

that shares the purposes of the community land trust and has

received a determination under 26 U.S.C. §501(c)(3).

(c) If the entity or organization that gives up or

loses its nonprofit status fails to begin the transfer of its

interest in any ground leases or deeds of conveyance within
Page 12

days as provided in subsection (b), all interests shall be

transferred to the organizing municipality effective

immediately.

Section 12. The provisions of this act shall control
where inconsistent with the provisions of another law.
Section 13. This act shall become effective on October
1, 2026.

Page 13
