153rd GENERAL ASSEMBLY
FEE IMPACT
BILL:

SENATE BILL NO. 257

SPONSOR:

Senator Poore

DESCRIPTION:

AN ACT TO AMEND TITLE 16 OF THE DELAWARE CODE RELATING TO ANIMAL
SHELTER OPERATION.

In accordance with 29 Del. C. § 913, the following information is provided relating to licenses and fees.
Description of the Legislation:
This Act requires animal shelters operating in Delaware to obtain and annually renew a license issued by
the Department of Health and Social Services (DHSS or the Department). The Act authorizes DHSS to
charge reasonable license and license renewal fees, provided such fees do not exceed the Department’s
costs associated with administering the animal shelter licensure program.
Affected Entities:
Department of Health and Social Services, Division of Public Health, State Office of Animal Welfare
Fiscal Impact:
A review of Animal Shelter Inspection Reports publicly posted on the Office of Animal Welfare’s website
indicates that at least 12 organizations are likely to be impacted as a result of this Act.
This Act provides that the Department may charge an animal shelter a reasonable license fee and license
renewal fee that may not exceed the costs to the Department of administering Subchapter I, Chapter 30F,
Title 16 of the Delaware Code.
For purposes of this fee impact statement, it is assumed that the DHSS will promulgate regulations to
determine or establish a schedule of fees. The schedule of fees once the final regulations are issued is
unknown; therefore, the additional revenue is indeterminable.
Fiscal Year 2027: Indeterminable
Fiscal Year 2028: Indeterminable
Fiscal Year 2029: Indeterminable
Intended Use of Revenue:
As this Act provides that the establishment of a license fee and license renewal fee may not exceed the
costs to the Department of administering Subchapter I, Chapter 30F, Title 16 of the Delaware Code, it is
presumed that the Department will retain the revenue generated by these fees and use the revenue to
offset costs for the operation of the licensing and inspection components related to this Act within the
State Office of Animal Welfare.
Prepared by Jason R. Smith
Office of the Controller General

2451530071

Date: May 19, 2026
