Senate File 2378 - Introduced
SENATE FILE 2378
BY COMMITTEE ON LOCAL
GOVERNMENT
(SUCCESSOR TO SF 2091)

A BILL FOR

An Act relating to the ability of property owners to protest
proposed changes in zoning districts.
BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF THE STATE OF IOWA:

TLSB 5798SV (2) 91
ms/js

Section 1. Section 414.4, Code 2026, is amended to read as
follows:
414.4 Zoning regulations, district boundaries, amendments.
1. The council of the city shall provide for the manner in
which the regulations and restrictions and the boundaries of
the districts shall be determined, established, and enforced,
and from time to time amended, supplemented, or changed,
modified, or repealed. However, the regulation, restriction,
or boundary shall not become effective until after a public
hearing at which parties in interest and citizens shall have an
opportunity to be heard. The notice of the time and place of
the hearing shall be published as provided in section 362.3.
2. Notwithstanding section 414.2, as part of an ordinance
changing land from one zoning district to another zoning
district or an ordinance approving a site development plan, a
council may impose conditions on a property owner that are in
addition to existing regulations if the additional conditions
have been agreed to in writing by the property owner before the
public hearing required under this section or adjournment of
the hearing. The conditions must be reasonable and imposed to
satisfy public needs that are directly caused by the requested
change.
Sec. 2. Section 657.9, subsection 1, Code 2026, is amended
to read as follows:
1. Before a person improves property acquired to establish,
use, and maintain a shooting range by the erection of
buildings, breastworks, ramparts, or other works or before a
person substantially changes the existing use of a shooting
range, the person shall obtain approval of the county zoning
commission or the city zoning commission, whichever is
appropriate. The appropriate commission shall comply with
section 335.8 or 414.6. In the event a county or city does
not have a zoning commission, the county board of supervisors
or the city council shall comply with section 335.6 or 414.5
before granting the approval.

ms/js

1/3

Sec. 3.

REPEAL. Section 414.5, Code 2026, is repealed.
EXPLANATION

The inclusion of this explanation does not constitute agreement with
the explanation’s substance by the members of the general assembly.

This bill repeals the ability of property owners to submit
a written protest to challenge a proposed change in a zoning
district.
Under Code section 414.5, as a part of an ordinance changing
land from one zoning district to another zoning district or an
ordinance approving a site development plan, a city council
may impose conditions on a property owner in addition to
existing regulations if the additional conditions have been
agreed to in writing by the property owner before the required
public hearing or adjournment of the hearing. The conditions
must be reasonable and imposed to satisfy public needs that
are directly caused by the requested change. If, however, a
written protest against a change or repeal is filed with the
city clerk and is signed by the owners of 20 percent or more
of the area of the lots included in the proposed change or
repeal, or by the owners of 20 percent or more of the property
that is located within 200 feet of the exterior boundaries
of the property for which the change or repeal is proposed,
the change or repeal shall not become effective except by the
favorable vote of at least three-fourths of all the members of
the council. The protest, if filed, must be filed before or at
the public hearing. The bill repeals Code section 414.5.
The bill allows a city council to impose conditions on a
property owner, as part of an ordinance changing land from one
zoning district to another zoning district or an ordinance
approving a site development plan, in addition to existing
regulations if the additional conditions have been agreed to in
writing prior to a required public hearing or adjournment of
the hearing. The conditions must be reasonable and imposed to
satisfy public needs that are directly caused by the requested
change.

ms/js

2/3

Current law requires a person to obtain approval from
the city zoning commission before substantially changing the
existing use of a shooting range or improving property that
was acquired to maintain a shooting range within the city. In
the event the city does not have a zoning commission, the city
council shall comply with Code section 414.5 before granting
approval. Due to the repeal of Code section 414.5, the bill
eliminates the requirement that a city council comply with Code
section 414.5 before approval.

ms/js

3/3
