Session of 2025

HOUSE BILL No. 2328
By Committee on Corrections and Juvenile Justice
Requested by Representative Schwertfeger on behalf of Representative Sweely
2-7

AN ACT concerning the secretary of corrections; relating to the prisonmade goods act; providing an exception to restrictions on prison-made
housing units to allow the secretary of corrections to establish a
program for delivering such units into designated areas; amending
K.S.A. 75-5275a and repealing the existing section.
Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Kansas:
Section 1. K.S.A. 75-5275a is hereby amended to read as follows: 755275a. (a) Notwithstanding any provision of the prison-made goods act of
Kansas to the contrary, except as provided in subsection (b), the secretary
shall not establish or maintain a home building program which
manufacturers that manufactures or produces housing units which that
would compete with the:
(1) (A) Manufactured homes or modular homes manufactured,
assembled or sold by manufactured home manufacturers; or
(B) manufactured homes or modular homes sold by manufactured
home dealers; or
(2) (A) modular homes manufactured, assembled or sold by modular
home manufacturers; or
(B) modular homes sold by modular home dealers.
(b) (1) The secretary may establish a program for delivering prisonmade housing units into designated areas, as determined by the secretary
in consultation with the local community, that have experienced minimal
building activity and home improvements despite community efforts to
incentivize such improvements.
(2) The secretary shall evaluate the program and submit a report to
the governor, the speaker of the house of representatives and the president
of the senate not later than 10 years after such program is established.
The report shall describe the program's impact on available housing in the
designated area and the impact on nonprison housing manufacturers and
dealers. The report shall also evaluate whether the program resulted in
inmates who participated in the program having gained employment in
related industries after release from incarceration, the expenses and costs
reimbursed to the state by inmates who participated in the program and
the amount of earned savings that such inmates had upon release from

HB 2328

incarceration.
(c) As used in this section:
(1) "Manufactured home" has the meaning ascribed to such term by
means the same as defined in K.S.A. 58-4202, and amendments thereto;
(2) "manufactured home dealer" has the meaning ascribed to such
term by means the same as defined in K.S.A. 58-4202, and amendments
thereto;
(3) "manufactured home manufacturer" has the meaning ascribed to
such term by means the same as defined in K.S.A. 58-4202, and
amendments thereto;
(4) "modular home" has the meaning ascribed to such term by means
the same as defined in K.S.A. 58-4202, and amendments thereto; and
(5) "secretary" means the secretary of corrections.; and
(6) "vocational building program" means the vocational building
program operated by the secretary to provide individual, freestanding
buildings, not to exceed 1,000 square feet in size, to state agencies for use
by such agencies.
(c)(d) The provisions of this section shall not apply to a vocational
building program.
(d)(e) This section shall be a part of and supplemental to the prisonmade goods act of Kansas.
Sec. 2. K.S.A. 75-5275a is hereby repealed.
Sec. 3. This act shall take effect and be in force from and after its
publication in the statute book.
