GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF NORTH CAROLINA
SESSION 2025
H

H.B. 372
Mar 11, 2025
HOUSE PRINCIPAL CLERK

D
HOUSE BILL DRH10141-LM-39

Short Title:

Home-Based Business Fairness Act.

Sponsors:

Representative Johnson.

(Public)

Referred to:

A BILL TO BE ENTITLED
AN ACT PROVIDING THAT CITIES SHALL NOT PROHIBIT CERTAIN HOME-BASED
BUSINESSES WITHIN THEIR JURISDICTIONAL LIMITS.
The General Assembly of North Carolina enacts:
SECTION 1. Article 8 of Chapter 160A of the General Statutes is amended by
adding a new section to read:
"§ 160A-205.8. No-impact home-based businesses.
(a)
A city shall not adopt an ordinance or other regulation prohibiting no-impact
home-based businesses within its jurisdictional limits or require a person to apply, register, or
obtain any permit, license, variance, or other type of approval to operate a no-impact home-based
business within its jurisdictional limit. A city may impose reasonable regulations on no-impact
home-based businesses if the regulations are narrowly tailored for any of the following purposes:
(1)
Ensuring the protection of public health and safety, as allowed by law.
(2)
Ensuring that the business activity meets all of the following:
a.
Is compatible with the residential use of the property and surrounding
residential use.
b.
Is secondary to the use of the property as a residential dwelling.
c.
Complies with State and federal law, including the payment of
applicable taxes.
(3)
Prohibiting or limiting the use of no-impact home-based businesses for the
purpose of selling illegal drugs, liquor, operating or maintaining a structured
sober living home, pornography, obscenity, or nude or topless dancing or
other adult-oriented businesses.
(b)
A municipality shall not require as a condition of operating a no-impact home-based
business that the owner or occupant of the property do the following:
(1)
Submit a petition for rezoning the property for commercial use.
(2)
Install or equip fire sprinklers in a single-family detached residential dwelling
or any residential dwelling with not more than two dwelling units.
(c)
The provisions of this section shall not apply if the operation of a no-impact
home-based business is prohibited by the terms of:
(1)
Any deed, covenant, or agreement restricting the use of the land.
(2)
Any master deed, bylaws, or other documents applicable to a homeowners
association.
(d)
The following definitions apply in this section:
(1)
Goods. – Any merchandise, equipment, products, supplies, or materials.

*DRH10141-LM-39*

General Assembly Of North Carolina

Session 2025

Home-based business. – Any business owned and operated by the owner or
occupant of the residential dwelling that manufactures, provides, or sells
goods or services.
(3)
No-impact home-based business. – A no-impact home-based business for
which all of the following apply:
a.
The total number of on-site employees and clients do not exceed the
municipality's occupancy limit for the residential property.
b.
The business activities are characterized by all of the following:
1.
Are limited to the sale of lawful goods and services.
2.
Do not generate on-street parking or a substantial increase in
traffic through the residential area.
3.
Occur inside or in the yard of the residential dwelling.
4.
Are not visible from the street."
SECTION 2. This act is effective when it becomes law.
(2)

Page 2

DRH10141-LM-39
