An Act to increase access to nurse-midwifery services.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court assembled, and by the authority
of the same, as follows:
SECTION 1. Chapter 32A of the General Laws is hereby amended by adding the
following section:-
Section 35. The commission shall provide to any active or retired employee of the
commonwealth insured under the group insurance commission coverage for services rendered by
a certified nurse midwife designated to engage in the practice of nurse-midwifery by the board of
registration in nursing pursuant to section 80C of chapter 112, and the payment rate for a service
provided by a certified nurse-midwife that is within the scope of the certified nurse-midwife’s
authorization to practice shall be equal to the payment rate for the same service if performed by a
physician.
SECTION 2. Section 47E of Chapter 175 of the General Laws, as appearing in the 2022
Official Edition, is hereby amended by adding the following sentences:- The reimbursement for
the services provided pursuant to this section shall be in the same amount as the reimbursement
paid under the policy to a licensed physician performing the service in the area served. An
of 3

insurer may not reduce the reimbursement paid to a licensed physician in order to comply with
this section.
SECTION 3. Chapter 176A of the General Laws is hereby amended by inserting after
section 8DDD. the following section:-
Section 8EEE. Any contract between a subscriber and the corporation under an individual
or group hospital service plan which is delivered, issued or renewed in the commonwealth shall
provide as a benefit to all individual subscribers and members within the commonwealth and to
all group members having a principal place of employment within the commonwealth for
services rendered by a certified nurse midwife designated to engage in the practice of nurse-
midwifery by the board of registration in nursing pursuant to section 80C of chapter 112, and the
payment rate for a service provided by a certified nurse-midwife that is within the scope of the
certified nurse-midwife’s authorization to practice shall be equal to the payment rate for the same
service if performed by a physician.
SECTION 4. Section 4G of Chapter 176B of the General Laws, as appearing in the 2022
Official Edition, is hereby amended by adding the following sentences:- The reimbursement for
the services provided pursuant to this section shall be in the same amount as the reimbursement
paid under the policy to a licensed physician performing the service in the area served. An
insurer may not reduce the reimbursement paid to a licensed physician in order to comply with
this section.
SECTION 5. Section 4 of Chapter 176G of the General Laws, as so appearing, is hereby
amended by adding the following subsection:-
of 3

(g) services rendered by a certified nurse midwife designated to engage in the practice of
nurse-midwifery by the board of registration in nursing pursuant to section 80C of chapter 112,
subject to the terms of a negotiated agreement between the health maintenance organization and
the provider of health care services. The reimbursement for the services provided shall be in the
same amount as the reimbursement paid under the policy to a licensed physician performing the
service in the area served. An insurer may not reduce the reimbursement paid to a licensed
physician in order to comply with this section.
of 3
