SENADO DE PUERTO RICO
P. del S. 1459
de septiembre de 2026
Presentado por la señora Santiago Negrón y el señor González Costa
Referido a la Comisión de
LEY
Para enmendar el inciso (a) del Artículo 2 y el inciso (g) del Artículo 3 de la Ley 156-2006,
según enmendada, denominada “Ley de Acompañamiento durante el Trabajo de
Parto, Nacimiento y Post-parto”, a los fines de esclarecer que durante el trabajo de
parto, en las salas de preparto, en el parto y postparto, la persona parturienta tiene
derecho a estar acompañada de la doula o persona adiestrada en medidas de
comodidad de su elección, además de los familiares o amigos que escoja libremente;
y para decretar otras disposiciones complementarias.
EXPOSICIÓN DE MOTIVOS
El texto promulgado de la Constitución de Puerto Rico reconoció en su Artículo II,
Sección 20 “[e]l derecho de toda mujer en estado grávido o en época de lactancia y el
derecho de todo niño, a recibir cuidados y ayudas especiales”. El lenguaje de esta
disposición se deriva del Artículo 25.2 de la Declaración Universal de Derechos Humanos
de la Asamblea General de las Naciones Unidas; disposición que no constituye una
expresión aislada de la comunidad internacional.1 La Declaración de Derechos para el
Parto (elaborada por organizaciones profesionales de obstetricia y ginecología
“La maternidad y la infancia tienen derecho a cuidados y asistencia especiales. Todos los niños, nacidos de
matrimonio o fuera de matrimonio, tienen derecho a igual protección social”. Declaración Universal de Derechos
Humanos de la Asamblea General de las Naciones Unidas, Artículo 25.2.

Led by the International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics, the Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists and the American College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists), this establishes the minimum rights and healthcare standards that should be observed to ensure maternal health before, during and after pregnancy. Among other stipulations, the instrument provides that pregnant women should be provided with access to at least one chosen birth companion during labor and delivery, as “the accompaniment of a trusted person during labor ‘makes a significant difference in the safety and well-being of women.’”2 This latter, the accompaniment, is a right supported by scientific literature. According to studies sponsored by the World Health Organization and the Pan American Health Organization,3 the evidence indicates that accompaniment during labor increases spontaneous vaginal births; reduces instrumental vaginal births;4 reduces the duration of labor; reduces the incidence of cesarean sections by 25%; can reduce the need for various types of analgesics; reduces negative perceptions of the childbirth experience, an effect that is multiplied when the person or persons of support are not part of hospital staff; reduces puerperal depression; can contribute to reducing the incidence of perinatal hypoxia-ischemia; can increase the use of breastfeeding, with the health benefits that it entails; and produces a substantial cost saving associated with labor.

Regarding the evaluative aspect, qualitative studies that explored the perceptions and experiences of labor support indicate that women value non-pharmacological pain relief measures that companions facilitate, such as reassuring touch (holding hands, massage, and counterpressure), International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics, Declaration of Rights for Childbirth of September 17, 2021: https://www.figo.org/sites/default/files/2021-09/FIGO_Statement_Childbirth_Bill_of_Rights_ES.pdf. World Health Organization & Pan American Health Organization, WHO Recommendations: Care during childbirth for a positive childbirth experience. World Health Organization, 2018; Pan American Health Organization, 2019: https://iris.paho.org/server/api/core/bitstreams/cf78c6b5-ccae-4e91-80ed-171a499259ee/content. Instrumental vaginal deliveries are procedures in which medical personnel use specialized tools, such as a vacuum extractor or forceps, to deliver or assist in the delivery of the baby during the final stage of labor.

Breathing and relaxation techniques and assistance with adopting alternative postures to alleviate pain are utilized. Some women also find comfort in spiritual support when their companions assist them with the reading of sacred texts or the recitation of prayers. Immigrant or refugee women, in particular, emphasize that companions from their own ethnic, religious, or cultural community, who have received training as companions, are an important way for them to receive culturally competent care. These companions empower women to ask questions, can act as their advocates, and ensure that their customs and traditions are respected. When women receive this type of assistance, they self-perceive as more secure and feel less “out of place” in their new community. Furthermore, the structured accompaniment provided by doulas during the preparation for childbirth and during labor not only enhances the general benefits of accompaniment, but also generates in women a sense of control during labor, allowing them to feel more confident in their ability to give birth; helps women improve their self-esteem when they recognize and reinforce their efforts; provides stimulation and guidance on how to maintain control; ensures that women are aware of their autonomy and possibility of choice; and promotes an even lower rate of premature births and cesarean sections.

Finally, scientific literature demonstrates that healthcare center policies limiting the participation of family members, doulas, and traditional attendants during childbirth not only can negatively impact the birthing experience but also induce anxiety in many women, which can lead to the development of mental health disorders. Given the benefits of support and the harmful effect of unjustified restriction, it is crucial that healthcare providers receive training on how to integrate the support person into the woman’s support team. With adequate training, conflicts or misunderstandings that may arise between the healthcare provider, the support person, and the woman can be avoided.

In Puerto Rico, there is a current statute that, in general, is consistent with the recommendations of the international community. Act 156-2006, as amended, known as the “Childbirth Support Law, Birth and Postpartum,” recognizes the rights of women and other pregnant persons that must be protected during the labor process, in addition to those recognized by the Constitution and international human rights law. Among other rights, the referenced law contemplates the right of persons in gestation to make free from coercion and informed decisions about the labor process; the right to be treated with respect and in an individual and personalized manner; the right to seek natural childbirth as a first alternative, respecting its physiological, biological, and psychological aspects, and avoiding invasive practices and the provision of medications that are not justified by their health condition; the right to have contact between the mother and the baby within the first hour of birth; and, as revealed in its title, the right to accompaniment during labor. This is enshrined in Article 3, subsection (g), which states that every pregnant woman will have the right: to be accompanied by people of her trust and choice during labor, in the prepartum rooms, during birth and postpartum, including the cesarean procedure, where she may be accompanied by at least one person of her choice.

It is understood, however, that the presence of an accompanying person or persons shall not interfere with medical determinations that consider or take by the health professionals with responsibility in childbirth, and in the case of a cesarean procedure, it will be they who will ultimately determine whether or not the accompanying person is allowed to be present. Furthermore, she will have the right not to be accompanied, if so desired by the woman. It is provided that the accompanying person will be obligated to comply with those rules that the hospital institution deems appropriate, provided that said rules are consonant with what is established in this Law. 5

Despite the fact that the text of the law expressly refers to persons of trust and choice of the woman in the plural, and that the law limits the accompaniment to one person, emphasis is added.

When a cesarean section is performed, some labor rooms in Puerto Rico adopt a restrictive interpretation of the law and operate under the premise that the right to accompaniment for women in labor is limited to allowing the entry of one person. Under this interpretation, many women are forced to forgo the proven benefits of a doula’s assistance or lose the moral, emotional, and spiritual support of their family, friends, or clergy, which is equally important. In this scenario, the Legislative Assembly intends to clarify that a restrictive interpretation of the “Law of Accompaniment during Labor, Birth, and Postpartum” is not consistent with the legislative intent, the spirit of the law, or its established text. Article 3, subsection (g), in particular, should be understood such that during labor, in prepartum rooms, during birth and postpartum, the woman in labor has the right to be accompanied by a doula or trained person of her choice, in addition to family or friends she freely chooses. The effort to address Puerto Rico’s demographic crisis requires multiple approaches, from a healthcare system that adequately channels women’s rights to a social security net that supports them with dignity throughout their lives. As a final matter, this legislative piece eliminates the word “monitor” from the law’s text, considering it an outdated and obsolete term among childbirth educators and companions. DECREES THE PUERTO RICAN LEGISLATURE:

Section 1.- The paragraph (a) of Article 2 of Act 156-2006, as amended, entitled “Law of Accompaniment during Labor, Birth, and Postpartum,” is amended to read as follows: “Article 2. — Definitions

For the purposes of this Law, the following words and phrases shall have the meaning hereinafter expressed:
a) Labor Phase Companions: person or persons freely chosen by the pregnant woman to accompany or assist her during the various stages of labor, including: mothers, fathers, family members, and friends, with or without training, in addition to the doula or person trained in measures of comfort of her choice [(monitor, “doula”, etc.)].
b) …
c) …
d) …”
Section 2.- The paragraph (g) of Article 3 of Act 156-2006, as amended, entitled “Law of Accompaniment during Labor, Birth, and Postpartum,” is amended to read as follows:
“Article 3. — Every pregnant woman, during her pregnancy and at the time of labor, birth, and postpartum, shall have the following rights:
a) …
b) …
c) …
d) …
e) …”

f) A be accompanied by a doula or trained person in the comfort measures chosen freely by her, in addition to family, friends, or trusted persons of her choice during labor, in the prepartum rooms, during labor and postpartum, including the cesarean procedure, in which she may be accompanied by at least one person of her choice; however, it is understood that the presence of the companion or companions shall not interfere with medical determinations that professionals of health consider or take responsibility for in childbirth, and in the case of the cesarean procedure, they will ultimately determine whether to allow the presence of the companion. Furthermore, she will have the right not to be accompanied, if so desired by the woman. It is provided that the companion will be required to comply with those rules that the hospital institution deems appropriate, provided that said rules are consonant with what is established in this Law.

l) Section 3.- Supremacy Clause. The provisions of this Law shall prevail over any other provision of law, regulation, or norm that is not in harmony with them.

Section 4.- Severability Clause. If any of the provisions of this Law or its application is declared unconstitutional or null, such declaration of invalidity or nullity shall not affect the executability and vigor of the remaining provisions that have not been the subject of adverse judgment.

Section 5.- Effective Date Clause. This Law shall take effect immediately after its approval.
