*LRB10416287HLH29672b*

104TH GENERAL ASSEMBLY
State of Illinois
and 2026
Introduced 2/5/2026, by Sen. Sue Rezin

SYNOPSIS AS INTRODUCED:
New Act
Creates the Data Center Construction by Foreign Adversaries Act.
Provides that no foreign company may construct or cause to be constructed a
data center in the State unless the Illinois Commerce Commission, the
Illinois Power Agency, and the Department of Commerce and Economic
Opportunity conduct a joint study of the energy consumption of the
prospective data center and certify to the Governor and the General
Assembly that the energy used by the new data center is a new
self-generated load and does not affect the load supply of PJM or MISO.
Provides that the term "foreign company" means an entity that (i) is at
least 51% owned by a foreign adversary or (ii) is headquartered in a
country with a government that is a foreign adversary.

LRB104 16287 HLH 29672 b

A BILL FOR

LRB104 16287 HLH 29672 b

AN ACT concerning data centers.

Be it enacted by the People of the State of Illinois,

represented in the General Assembly:

Section 1. Short title. This Act may be cited as the Data
Center Construction by Foreign Adversaries Act.

Section 5. Data center construction by foreign adversaries
prohibited.

(a) As used in this Section:

"Company"

means

a

sole

proprietorship,

organization,

association, corporation, partnership, joint venture, limited

partnership, limited liability partnership, limited liability

company, or other entity or business association, including

all wholly owned subsidiaries, majority-owned subsidiaries,

parent companies, or affiliates of those entities or business

associations.

"Data

center"

has

the

meaning

given

to

that

term

in

Section 605-1025 of the Department of Commerce and Economic

Opportunity Law of the Civil Administrative Code of Illinois.

"Foreign company" means a company that:
(1) is at least 51% owned by a foreign adversary, as
defined in 15 CFR 791.2; or
(2) is headquartered in a country with a government
that is a foreign adversary, as defined in 15 CFR 791.2.

LRB104 16287 HLH 29672 b

"MISO" means the regional transmission organization known
as the Midcontinent Independent System Operator, Inc.
"PJM" means the regional transmission organization known
as PJM Interconnection, LLC.

(b) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, on and

after the effective date of this Act, no foreign company may

construct or cause to be constructed a data center in the State

unless the Illinois Commerce Commission, the Illinois Power

Agency,

Opportunity conduct a joint study of the energy consumption of

the prospective data center and certify to the Governor and

the General Assembly that the energy estimated to be used by

the data center is a self-generated load and does not affect

the load supply of PJM or MISO.

and

the

Department

of

Commerce

and

Economic
