SENATE OF PUERTO RICO
20th. Legislative
3rd. Session
Ordinary
BILL NUMBER: 5731
DATE:
COMMITMENT REPORT
POSITIVE
OFABNIDE026
SENATE OF PUERTO RICO
The Committees of Government; and of Finance, Technology, e Artificial Intelligence,
having studied and considered the project of the senate 731, recommend to this Upper
body its approval with the minimum changes in the *.iril"d. ;i*d;;;; aaompafra. ALC/INCE DE II\MEDIDA
Senate Bill 731 (hereinafter, p. del S. 731) has as its purpose
to create the "Public Auction Law - with artificial intelligence and government support"; to that end, it will
facilitate public and private auctions under the administration of the Genera_res de
Ri5o (Asc), to provide the
alert r" platform ]EDI in all
!s.a.sencia1, departments, private and also ir"""-"",,,ri1"i", i"r
government of puerto Rico; is " total pre-c r i l o " n i"J ;;;;;Hn of ,i"tema" of interigencia
c a r r e ti a fi r c t ia rn l y R e m g o is d t e ro lo 3 p r { ib e l i l c e o ng d u e a r A ^e l . g a o " r g irn r* o , s u ; o fi , j J ar o l ' o G s l d M e i" b rr e lo r , e p s r* ; " ; ro i; , ; * de ; ; a # dq f u f i i s : ic " i6 j" n; Innovaci6n y Servicios ae fecnJfogia pffi yl"i*
for noncompliance; and repeal discrepancies iJgabsi " * g * f , l . i" " t s o ; . establish sanctions
MEASURE ANALYSIS

Senate Bill 731, dated as is, intends to declare the public policy of the Government of Puerto Rico with respect to all private acquisition, contracting, and subcontracting, which must be carried out through the Administration of Senior Citizen Services. It also calls for the use of the Joint E-procurement Digital Platform (o.E.D.I.) as mandatory.

Senate Bill S. 717
Committees of Government; and Science, Technology, and Artificial Intelligence
RESPONSE
The Committees of Government and of Science, Technology and Artificial Intelligence of the Senate of Puerto Rico, as part of the study and evaluation of S. 717,
held a public hearing on October 9, 2025, to which the following appeared: 1. Administration of General Services
2. Office of Management and Budget
3. Office of Financial Advising and Fiscal Agency
The committees also received written comments from Puerto Rico
Innovation and Technology Service and received the fiscal impact analysis conducted by the Legislative Assembly Budget Office.
ADMINISTRATION OF GENERAL SERVICES
The Administration of General Services endorses the measure.
This governmental instrumentality argues that the centralization of purchases to
its digital platform, known as I.E. D.I. (Digital Procurement Intelligence), has proven to be a tool of unprecedented efficiency in
the history of Puerto Rico’s public administration. In its extensive exposition, the
[SD] details how the implementation of this system has achieved a reduction in
the number of stages of processing, from 2 to 4 days to a single day for purchases against
contract.

In addition to highlighting these impressive operational achievements, the agency dedicates a significant portion of its presentation to contrasting the 6th goal of its local platform with the repeated and immense failures associated with the prolonged and extremely costly implementation of the Oracle Cloud Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) system, further stating that while the government has wasted hundreds of millions of dollars in Oracle modules that do not function fully, I.E.D.I. was implemented with an investment of approximately $860,000 without recurring licensing costs per user. ASG also presented the following recommendations for amendments, which we translated textually: 1. First, to erase the outdated language of the “substitute” title, “the immediate dismissal of the liability and the elimination of the legal requirements” as proposed by the “subcommittee” for consideration.

Commission on Government;';yffiy.ff#i yr#;:,:r1*fi:; Page 3
“procurements.” This is due to the understanding that its application is applicable to all recognized procurement methods in our legal system. 2. Furthermore, we recommend that in all text of the bill, the term “J.E.D.I.” should be substituted for “J.E.D.I.”, with periods between the letters, as it is an acronym for the E-procurement Digital Intelligence platform – its formal name. 3. In Article 3 of the legislative measure, we recommend adding an (f) paragraph, which includes the definition of “Procurement,” which should refer to all methods of acquisition of goods, works and non-professional services recognized in Decree 73-2079, paragraph 4. 4. In relation to Article 5 of the P. of S. 731, regarding “Integration Obligations,” we believe that Entities Exempt should not be excluded from the obligation to integrate into the J.E.D.I. platform. The objective of their integration is not to diminish the powers that are currently granted to them regarding their own purchases and auctions, as long as these do not conflict with prior procurements and contracts by the ASG. Rather, the goal is for transactions to be carried out within a single system with the uniformity and transparency that it provides. It should be noted that there is already an exempt entity with J.E.D.I. 2.0 and two additional entities are in the process of integrating. 5. With respect to the same Article 5, we understand that to provide for an orderly inclusion of the Entities Support, a request to the ASG would be necessary, which would be granted by the Administration.

WHEREAS, this same way, it is suggested to provide for the Administration of the ASG
to be able to dispense to certain Entities Exempt, at a substantiated request
- of these, of complying with the period of X months of integration. 5' At its turn, we would consider it better to omit the list of Governmental Entities and Entities Exempt - and that the definition -;;;;;
pertains to each category be delimited exclusively in the same law. 7&2019, as it occurs now. That applies equally, Etd' Excluded as they are the Legislative Assembly, the judiciary -;;;;;;,
and the University of Puerto Rico. 7'
In relation to Article 6 of the legislative measure, on “Implementation
of Artificial Intelligence”, we recommend including paragraph (f), which adds as
one of the functionalities of the intelligence solution
evaluation
language and citation of performance -;;;;;;, " irrg"rl"i"
. To support its argument, the ASG presented the following comparative analysis
[::,1';;Tl,r"*r, and the system proposed r"t"rf,i* Resource pr"""te Ciul

Act No. 5.737
Committee on Economic Development, and Science, Technology, and Artificial Intelligence
Page 4
Record
Jose J. Eller (ASG)
Proposed
Schedule W, Ley 73- Roosevelt &sanollo Complies with
and
Additional Legislative Configuration for the Uniform
Public Transparency. Does not automate the public publication of
subsystems to the system & official portals or records. Comp.
Methods of Acquisition: Identified via RFI, RFQ and Auction. Defined in Law 73-2019. Configurable flows by Search flexibility; Discro Configurable by hierarchy
agency and type one-size-fits-all and type of purchase. Sepanation of roles Restrictions under structure granular controls by role,
and
access licenses specific function and agency
public. Cost of licenses $3.52-$8.00 per user; user license cost. Adaptability to changes Decree of regulatory timescales and support in real time new
Oracle. Certain circulars not available. Automatic integration with
RI/LVRIn validation of validity and
issue of waivers and
application and transparency Manual dependency of
Automation, and operation of the system. Cda column 8 addressed &
user provided or corporate. Public Entities of
Puerto Rico.

The Office of Management and Budget, in conjunction with the Office of Financial Advising and the Fiscal Agency, do not endorse this measure. These entities are submitting a joint petition and rejecting the proposed legislation, arguing that it represents a duplication of efforts and is irreconcilable with public policy and fiscal mandates established by the Oversight and Financial Supervision Board under the framework of the PROMESA federal law.

Senate Bill Positive Cotrjuttto regarding P. del S. 737
Commission of Governance; and of Science, Technology and Artificial Intelligence
Page 5
These agencies explain that the Fiscal Certification Plan, specifically in its
section 3.1.7.5, obligates the Government of Puerto Rico to implement an integrated
Enterprise Resource Planning system, commonly known as ERP, in order to
consolidate and centralize all financial administration functions, including
the purchasing and contracting modules that this project intends to place under the
exclusive domain of the General Services Administration. They argue that forcing the
mandatory use and integration of the JEDI platform constitutes a redundant
expenditure of public funds, a potential source of serious technological
interoperability problems, and a setback in efforts to reclaim financial control,
given that the Department of Finance has already allocated significant economic
resources for the development of the purchasing modules within the Oracle
ecosystem. In addition to their technological and governmental fiscal objections,
they express a deep budgetary concern by pointing out that the legislative
measure imposes new responsibilities without identifying a clear and recurring
source of funding, violating the principle of fiscal neutrality. Nevertheless, the OPAL
directly contradicts the thesis of the OGp and AAFAF.
OFFICE OF THE ASSEMBLY BUDGET
The OPAL contends that the approval of the bill would not entail adverse fiscal impact
either for the General Fund or for the individual budgets of the public
instrumentalities concerned.

Bill BREI, Date: [Date Not Provided], Chamber: Senate
Resolution establishing general fiscal neutrality, stating that the principal provisions of the project reiterate and reaffirm the obligations, authorities, and mandates of centralization of purchases by the General Services Administration and that the certified current budget already provides necessary allocations to promote maintenance and ongoing improvements of the IEDL electronic platform. However, OPAL establishes the exception as provided in Article 6 of the test provision, which states that the fiscal effect of integrating, developing, and implementing artificial intelligence methods and models, as it is currently quantifiable, is uncertain. This inability to project the economic cost of algorithmic tools is due to the uncertainty surrounding these emerging technologies and the lack of information, which impedes the implementation of real programming expenses for automated platforms in government.
PUERTO RICO INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY SERVICE

Information Concerning Bill SBN el P. rlcl 5.711
Commissions dc Gobiano; y tle Cicttcia, Terclogb e latdigencit Anifuial
Page 6

to obtain an integral overview of the administrative, budgetary, and technological feasibility of the proposed implementation. PRIS recognizes and applauds the good intentions of the Legislative Assembly of Puerto Rico to foster transparency, improve understanding, and promote government efficiency through the adoption of state-of-the-art technologies such as artificial intelligence and large language models, but concludes that the current text of the project suffers from multiple structural, legal, and technological deficiencies that prevent them from giving it their approval. In their analysis, they argue that the creation of a completely new and independent law is an inappropriate and highly problematic legal avenue, as it directly conflicts with the provisions previously established in 73-2019, particularly with respect to the categorization, inclusion, and exclusion of various exempt entities, suggesting that any changes to procurement policy should be made through direct amendments to the existing organic law to avoid interpretative gaps. The agency clarifies that its statutory mandate is strictly limited to technological governance, regulatory review, and technical approval of information technology projects at the governmental level, and therefore rejects the project’s language that imposes on it the responsibility to coordinate or operate directly the implementation of artificial intelligence modules in conjunction with the Department of General Services.

Finally, they reiterate the warnings raised by tax authorities regarding the imminent integration of acquisition systems with the Oracle Cloud Enterprise Resource Planning platform, warning that the strict eighteen-month deadline proposed for the total migration of agencies to the [EDI] platform could be unreasonable and incompatible with the State’s integrated technological architecture, and demanding that any algorithm or virtual assistant adopted pass through their rigorous cybersecurity, ethical, and algorithmic bias prevention filters.

MUNICIPAL FINANCIAL IMPACT
N
Noncompliance with Article 1.00T of Act No. 10T:020:f,8t amended, known as the “Municipal Code of Puerto Rico,” the Informing Committees certify that P. of S. 731 does not impose an economic obligation in the municipal governments’ budgets.

CONCLUSION
The Government and Science, Technology & Intelligence Committees of the Puerto Rico Senate conducted an integral analysis of P. of S. 731, in light of the applicable law, public policy regarding legal contracting, and the arguments presented by the presenting entities.

S. 737
Committees of Government; and of Science, Technology, and Artificial Intelligence
Page 7

artificial intelligence strengthens transparency, administrative efficiency and accountability in government management. The evidence presented by the Department of General Services demonstrates that the use of integrated technological systems allows processes to be expedited, standardized and the use of public resources to be optimized, which responds to an urgent need of contemporary public administration. At the same time, the Committees recognize the value of the observations formulated by the entities that expressed reservations, which provide substantial elements to guarantee normative coherence, technological compatibility and the sustainability of the measure. Those considerations have been incorporated as part of the deliberative process, allowing the legislative piece to be strengthened and to address in a responsible manner the challenges identified. In light of the above, the Committees have introduced substantial amendments to the text of the project with the purpose of attending to the suggestions and concerns presented, harmonizing the measure with Law 2020, specifying the scope of the obligations imposed and clarifying the institutional roles in the implementation of technological components. Consequently, the Committees conclude that the p. of the S. 731, as amended, advances a public policy aimed at transforming and optimizing government contracting processes through the responsible incorporation of technology, in harmony with the principles of good public administration, normative uniformity and fiscal responsibility. AS SOON AS POSSIBLE, the Committees of Government;

The Department of Science, Technology, and Artificial Intelligence of the Senate of Puerto Rico hereby presents to this Upper Body the Positive Joint Report on Senate Bill 731, recommending its approval with the amendments contained in the electronic appendix that is attached. RESPECTFULLY SUBMITTED. /Z* Ledesio Lopez Hon. Wilmer Rey Berrones President Commission of Government Commission of Science, Tech

cnologia e
Senado de Puerto Rico Inteligencia Artificial
Senado de Puerto Rico

ENTIRILLADO ELECTRoNICO
GOBIERNO DE PUERTO RICO
ma. Asamblea 2 &. Sesi6n
kgislativa Ordinaria
SENADO DE PUERTO RICO
P. del 5.731,
de septiembre de20?j
Presentado por el seflor Reyes Berios
Referido a las Comisiones de Gobierno; y de Ciencia, Tecnologia e lnteligmcia Artifciat
LEY
Para crear la "l*y de subas+as Licitaciones priblicas con Inteligencia Artificial y
@ de Puerto Rico"; a los fines de centralizar la
totalidad de las compras, adquisiciones y subastas prlblicas bajo la Administraci6n
de Servicios Generales del Gobierno de Puerto Rico (ASG), disponer la
obligatoriedad de! uso de la plataforrra Wl toint f-procuremmt OiEta l*
(LE.D.L) en
i
iee toda Entidad tal senin
por la Lev 73-2019, en conocitla como lo "IEu de la
la las del
de Puerto Rico de 2019": establecer la incolporaci6n de sistemas de inteligencia
artificial y modelos de lenguaje de gran tamafro (L lJll.g sup s1g@ en.!ngJu) en
los procesos de adquisici6n; cre.u un Registro P(blico de Algoritmos; fijar los
deberes de la ASG
clel
Innooation and Tech
lecer
sanciones por incumplimiento;
v plra
otros fines rehcionados.
EXPOSICIdN DE MOTIVOS
La
contrataci6n priblica constituye una de las 6reas mis sensibles de
ra
administraci6n gubemamental, pues imprica el uso de fondos priblicos que pertenec.n
al pueblo de Puerto Rico. La falta de transparencia, la dispersi6n de procesos y ra

ausencia de uniformidad han resultado en un sistema fragmentado, vulnerable a la
comrpci6n, con duplicidad de esfuerzos y limitaciones en la supervisi6n fiscal.
L" Ly 7$2019, conocida como la 'ky de la Administraci6n de Servicios
Generales para la Centralizaci6n de las Compras del Gobiemo de Puerto Rico dc 2019" .
sent6 las bases para que la ASG asumiera un rol protag6nico en la organizaci6n de las
adquisiciones y licitaciones piblicas. No obstante, los infomres y estadfuticas han
demostrado que muchas agencias y corporaciones pfblicas continuaron operando fuera
de didra centralizaci6n, con mrlltiples procesos paralelos que restan eficiencia y
f omentan discrecionalidad.
En la actualidad, Puerto Rico cuenta con la plataforrra FDI-IE.D.I $oint E-
procurement Digital Intelligmce), creada para uniformar y digitalizar las subastas
prlblicas. Esta herramienta ha probado ser ritil, Perc su implementaci6n ha sido parcial.
Paralelamente, la evoluci6n de la inteligencia artificial y de los modelos de lmgrraje de
gran tamafro ha kansformado las mejores pr6cticas m contrataci6n pfblica a nivel
intemacional, perrritimdo detecci6n automdtica de anomalias, validaci6n de
pron6sticos de demanda, y auditorias en tiemPo real.
Es politica p(blica del Gobiemo de Puerto Rico avanzar hacia la completa
centralizaci6n de todas las adquisiciones en la ASG, garantizando Proc€9os uniformes,
$ eficientes y transparentes, apoyados por herramientas tecnol6gicas de fltima
generaci6n. [a Presente ley consolida este marco @
.
DECR TASE POR LA ASAMBLEA LEGISIJ\TIVA DE PI.JERTO RICO:
I
Art(culo 1. - Tltr:lo
Esta ley se conocer5 como La "l*y de snbastas Licitacioaes Priblicas con
lnteligencia Artificial de Puerto Rico".
Articulo 2.- Declaraci6n de politica prlblica

I
Se dedara polltica prlblica del Gobierno de Puerto Rico que toda adguisici6n,
ctntrataci6n y subasta p(blica deberd llevarse a cabo a trav6s de la Administraci6n de
Servicios C,enerales, mediante el uso obligatorio de la plataforma W_Ioint
E_
?toatraant Digital lntclligence 0.E.D.I). Asimismq se declara polltica prnbtca fommtar
eI uso de sistemas de inteligmcia adficial y modelos de lenguaje de gan tamafro para
garantizar mayor eficiencia, tmnsparcncia supervisi6n y rendici6n de cumtas en los
procesos de compras gubemamentales.
Ardculo 3. - Definiciones
Para efuctos de esta ley, los siguientes tdrzrinos ten&rn el significado que se
l0
indica:
a) Adn*t'straei6r de se-v:des Gen€rdes ( lcG): er8arisme 8ulenamental
t2 eneartade de eenr^r,-aryr adt$r:^trar rae eernfras y eul."ta- del Gelieme de
l3 Pue*e+iee,
t4
t6
l8
2t eentrataei&

I U€e:
d Ailminishaci^n ite Serubios C*nerales (ASG): orgnnismo gufurnanmtal mcargailo
dc cattralizar ! ailminishar hs am?ras y subastas ilel Gobiemo ile Puerto Rbo
b too toda m tal
se?ufl ileftnidt en la lev 73-20L9. xmn conociill como It dc la
Administracion ik Seruiciu Gorualu para la Centralizacion dz las del
Gobiemo de Punto Rico de 2079".
y w
ct Intzligmcit Artificial oAt: cotiunto dt tacnicas dc ?rogramacihn alSoritmos
pemriten a sistefios irrfofrrldlticos reutizrf threas qu* fiailiciofi$hflente fequiarcn
l0 intelismcia hufiano.
u
u d\ Licitacihn: todas tos n itodas de adquisician de bienes. obfis seroicios no
t2 orofuiodes reconocilta et la I4 73-2079. *Nn ammdada. conocida amo la "14 dc
Gobierno de Puerto Rico de 2079".
l5 e\ModclosilelnsuaieiteGrmTatufrofi,Ifil\:moileloscottlPutrciorulescaPacaile
N l6 lmr
su
P E.D.I sts elec
l8 E-w uur emmt D igit al IntelliS arc e.
Articulo 4. - furisdicci6n exclusiva de la ASG
confiere a la Administracidt ile
la 79
exclusiva para dirigir' administrar y adludicar la
2l iurisdicci6n
)) totalidad de Ios procesos de compras, adquisiciones y subastas priblicas' Ninguna

I
agencia, corporaci6n o instrummtalidad podrd efuhrar proesos de contrataci6n fuera
dela plataiorura FB* I.E.Pf
3@
Articulo 5. -Obligaciones de integraci6n
Todas las Entidades Gubemamentales del Gobiemo de puerto Rico deberdn
integrarse a la plataforma FDIlEaLen un tdrmino no mayor de dieciocho (Ig) meses
contados a partir de la vigencia de esta ley.
E
las Entidades €r$emasema+alee Gubernammtales sore todas las dependencias
y departamentos de la Rama Eiecutivaademie g todas las crrporaciones pribticas del
l0
C'obiemo de Puerto Rjco, con excapci6n de las Entidades Exentas.
I4
l5 Gubenarental de Fernente -ara pne-te IUeq rlnteridad -ara re Eanzas pdbliee
l6 *r"n"" n" ar"*" *., nrr"rn"n .**r*,*,r" ,*-"r**"
U*" n" ,.
"t n"
l8
l9
2t
aa

I Ueee.
' as Entidade, Gub€mam€ntCes €bqBa
ia
Transpe*^d6n; Pu€*ee Edilieios P{br:ee+ Tierra& TraruPerGad6n hEgxada'
E
r0 d€+/tt6siea;ske€ha&
ll Ia ASG publicard y mantendra actualizado un registro oficial con todas las
t2 entidades obligadas por esta ley.l
Articuto 5. - lmplementaci6n de inteligmcia artificial
La ASG, en coordinaci6n cor. eI Puerto Rico Innooatiot and Tednrologu Seruice
(PRIIS),implementar6m6rdulosdeinteligenciaartificialymodelosdelerrguajedegran
amairo en la platafowtal6Dlpanlo siguieile:
t7 a) Validaci6n automitica de documentoo sometidos m subastas'
b) DeEcci6n y aterta cle posibles irregularidades' anomallas y ftaude'
l9 c) Generaci6n de pron6sticos de precios y demanda de bimes y servicios'
d) Emisi6n de resrtmenes de expedientes y auditorlas en tieurpo real'
2l e) Crcaci6n de asistmtes vfuhrale Para orisrtat a ticitadores y ploveedores'
,,,| ft E del ile los I

Ardculo 7. - Regisko Prlblico de Algoritmos
a La AsG establecerd un Regisho pribrico de Algorituros donde conste la
inforrraci6n bdsica de cada modelo de inteligencia artificial o LLM utilizado,
incluymdo proveedor, versi6n, auditorfus de sesgo y par6metsos de transparcncia.
Articulo 8. - Reglammtaci6n y capacitaci6n
La ASG, en mordinaci6n con pRfIS, adoptar6 reglammtos para la
implementaci6n de esta ley y desarrollari programas de capacitaci6n dirigidos ar
personal de compras de todas las as€nda'r€efpofadsn€e mtidada gubernameatala,
Ardculo 9. - Sanciones
l0 El incumplimiento con las disposiciones de esta ley conlevar6 la nulidad de ros
I contratos otorgados fuera de ryJE.DJ,
las sanciones administrativas contra Ia
entidad responsable en con ls ku 73-2019. sesin en la
l3
de la inistraci6n de la Cmtralizaci1n ile las Compras del
hal,
ile Puerto Rico de 9"
@.
l6 Articulo 10. - Informes
t7
La ASG rendirii un informe anual a Ia Asamblea tegislativa
sobre el grado de
l8
cumplimiento de las y
agencias ocrporaciones, ros ahorros gmerados,
las
l9 irregularidades
detectadas y las mejoras implementadas
mediante el uso de inteligmcia
artificial.
Articulo
11. - Separabilidad
si cualquier disposici6n de esta tey fuere declarada nula o inconstitucional por

I un tribunal con jurisdicci6o las dem6s disposiciones mantendriin su plena vigencia.
Artioilo 12. - Vigencia
Esta ley entratd en vigor inmediatamente despues de su aprobaci6n. La
transici6n completa deberd efectuarse en un t€rmino no mayor de dieciocho (18) meses.
estableeide
