House Bill 53EX
By: Representatives Williamson of the 112th, Martinez of the 111th, and Fleming of the 114th

A BILL TO BE ENTITLED
AN ACT

To provide a homestead exemption from City of Monroe ad valorem taxes in the amount of

the assessed value of the homestead property determined annually for the special district

based upon the proceeds of a new Local Homestead Option Sales Tax (LHOST) to be

imposed within the special district conterminous with Walton County; to provide for

definitions; to specify the terms and conditions of the exemption and the procedures relating

thereto; to provide for applicability; to provide for compliance with constitutional

requirements and the provisions of Article 2C of Chapter 8 of Title 48 of the O.C.G.A.; to

provide for a referendum, effective dates, automatic repeal, mandatory execution of election,

and judicial remedies regarding failure to comply; to provide for related matters; to repeal

conflicting laws; and for other purposes.

BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF GEORGIA:

SECTION 1.

(a) As used in this Act, the term:

(1) "Ad valorem taxes" means all ad valorem taxes imposed by the governing authority

of the city for all purposes.

(2) "City" means the City of Monroe and its governing authority.

(3)

Section 48-8-109.50 of the O.C.G.A.

(4) "LHOST" means the special sales and use tax established under Article 2C of

Chapter 8 of Title 48 of the O.C.G.A.

(5) "Local tax official" means the tax official charged with the duty of receiving

applications for homestead exemptions for the city.

(6) "Special district" means the special district conterminous with Walton County and

established by Code Section 48-8-109.51 of the O.C.G.A.

"Homestead property" shall have the same meaning as provided in Code

(b) Each resident of the special district is granted an exemption from all ad valorem taxes

imposed by the city for all purposes in the amount of the assessed value of such homestead

property as is determined annually based upon the net proceeds of the sales and use tax

collected under Article 2C of Chapter 8 of Title 48 of the O.C.G.A. on such person's

homestead property located within the special district determined annually based upon the

net proceeds of the sales and use tax collected within the special district in accordance with

Code Section 48-8-109.57 of the O.C.G.A. for the special district based upon the net

proceeds of the LHOST collected within the special district. The value of such property in

excess of such exempted amount shall remain subject to taxation.

(c) A person shall not receive the homestead exemption granted by subsection (b) of this

section unless such person or person's agent files an application with the local tax official

giving such information relative to receiving such exemption as will enable the local tax

official to make a determination regarding the initial and continuing eligibility of such person

for such exemption; provided, however, that any person who previously applied for another

homestead exemption from ad valorem taxes imposed by the city, was allowed such

homestead exemption for the immediately preceding tax year, and remains eligible for such

homestead exemption for that same homestead property in the current tax year shall be

allowed the exemption granted under subsection (b) of this section for that homestead

without the application otherwise required by this subsection. The local tax official shall

provide application forms for the purposes of this subsection.

(d) The exemption shall be claimed and returned as provided in Code Section 48-5-50.1 of

the O.C.G.A. Once granted to a person, the exemption shall be automatically renewed from

year to year without application so long as the person granted the homestead exemption

under subsection (b) of this section occupies such residence as a homestead and otherwise

remains eligible for such exemption. It shall be the duty of any person granted the

homestead exemption under subsection (b) of this section to notify the local tax official in

the event that such person for any reason becomes ineligible for such exemption.

(e) In accordance with the provisions of subsection (c) of Code Section 48-8-109.52 of the

O.C.G.A., the exemption granted by subsection (b) of this section:

(1) Shall not apply to or affect any ad valorem taxes other than those levied by the

governing authority of the local government to which this Act applies;

(2) Shall only apply to those portions of real property located within the special district;

(3) Shall be in addition to and not in lieu of any other homestead exemption applicable to

the homestead property; and

(4) The exemption granted by subsection (b) of this section shall apply to all taxable years

beginning on January 1 of the year subsequent to the approval of this Act in the referendum

provided for in Section 4 of this Act and ending on December 31, 2039.

SECTION 2.

This Act incorporates by reference the terms and conditions specified under Article 2C of

Chapter 8 of Title 48 of the O.C.G.A.

SECTION 3.

In accordance with the requirements of Article VII, Section II, Paragraph II(a)(2) of the

Constitution of the State of Georgia, this Act shall not become law unless it receives the

requisite two-thirds' majority vote in both the Senate and the House of Representatives.

SECTION 4.

(a) The election superintendent of the city shall call and conduct an election as provided in

this section for the purpose of submitting this Act to the electors of the city residing within

the special district for approval or rejection. The election superintendent shall conduct that

election on the Tuesday following the first Monday in November, 2026, and shall issue the

call and conduct that election as provided by general law. The election superintendent shall

cause the date and purpose of the election to be published once a week for two weeks

immediately preceding the date thereof in the official organ of the city. The ballot shall have

written or printed thereon the words:

"( ) YES Shall the Act be approved which provides a homestead exemption from City

of Monroe ad valorem taxes for city purposes in an amount of the assessed

( ) NO

value of the homestead property as is determined annually using the

proceeds of a new 1 percent Local Homestead Option Sales Tax to be

imposed within the special district of Walton County?"

(b) All persons desiring to vote for approval of the Act shall vote "Yes," and all persons

desiring to vote for rejection of the Act shall vote "No." If more than one-half of the votes

cast on such question are for approval of the Act, Section 1 of this Act shall become of full

force and effect on January 1, 2027. If the Act is not so approved, or if the election is not

conducted as provided in this section, Section 1 of this Act shall not become effective, and

this Act shall be automatically repealed on the 365th calendar day following the election date

provided for in this section. The expense of such election shall be borne by the city. It shall

be the election superintendent's duty to certify the result thereof to the Secretary of State.

(c) The provisions of this section shall be mandatory upon the election superintendent and

are not intended as directory. If the election superintendent fails or refuses to comply with

this section, any elector of the city residing within the special district may apply for a writ

of mandamus to compel the election superintendent to perform his or her duties under this

section. If the court finds that the election superintendent has not complied with this section,

the court shall fashion appropriate relief requiring the election superintendent to call and

conduct such election on the date required by this section or on the next date authorized for

special elections provided for in Code Section 21-2-540 of the O.C.G.A.

SECTION 5.

Except as otherwise provided in Section 4 of this Act, this Act shall become effective upon

its approval by the Governor or upon its becoming law without such approval.

SECTION 6.
All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this Act are repealed.
