Senate File 2495 - Introduced
SENATE FILE 2495
BY COMMITTEE ON WAYS AND MEANS
(SUCCESSOR TO SF 2279)

A BILL FOR

An Act creating a maternity group home tax credit available
against the individual, corporate, franchise, insurance
premium, and moneys and credits taxes, and including
applicability provisions.
BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF THE STATE OF IOWA:

TLSB 6709SV (1) 91
jm/jh

Section 1. NEW SECTION. 135E.1 Maternity group home tax
credit.
1. As used in this section unless the context otherwise
requires:
a. “Department” means the department of revenue.
b. “Donation” means a voluntary cash or noncash contribution
to a maternity group home made by the taxpayer during the tax
year.
c. “Maternity group home” means the same as defined in
section 414.27.
2. For tax years beginning on or after January 1, 2026,
a tax credit shall be allowed against the taxes imposed in
chapter 422, subchapters II, III, and V, and in chapter 432,
and against the moneys and credits tax imposed in section
533.329, equal to one hundred percent of a person’s donation
to a maternity group home. An individual may claim a tax
credit under this section of a partnership, limited liability
company, S corporation, estate, or trust electing to have
income taxed directly to the individual. The amount claimed
by the individual shall be based upon the pro rata share of the
individual’s earnings from the partnership, limited liability
company, S corporation, estate, or trust.
3. The amount of the donation for which the tax credit is
claimed shall not be deductible in determining taxable income
for state income tax purposes.
4. Any tax credit in excess of the person’s tax liability
shall not be credited to the tax liability for the following
tax year. A tax credit shall not be carried back to a tax
year prior to the tax year in which the person claims the tax
credit, and a tax credit shall not be transferable.
5. a. The cumulative value of the amount of tax credits
authorized pursuant to this section shall not annually exceed
three million five hundred thousand dollars.
b. The maximum value of tax credits granted for donations
per an organization operating a maternity group home shall not

jm/jh

1/4

annually exceed five hundred thousand dollars.
6. a. A taxpayer must submit an application to the
department in a manner approved by the department for each
separate and distinct donation. The application must be
approved by the department in order to claim the tax credit.
The application must be filed within six months following the
tax year the donation was made.
b. The department shall accept and approve applications on
a first-come, first-served basis until the maximum value amount
of tax credits that may be claimed pursuant to subsection 5 is
reached. If for a tax year the aggregate amount of tax credits
applied for exceeds the maximum amount specified in subsection
5, paragraph “a” or “b”, the department shall establish a
wait list when applicable. Valid applications filed by the
taxpayer within six months following the tax year of the
donation but not approved by the department shall be placed
on a wait list in the order the applications were received
and those applicants shall be given priority for having their
applications approved in succeeding years. Placement on a wait
list pursuant to this paragraph shall not constitute a promise
binding the state. The availability of a tax credit and
approval of a tax credit application pursuant to this section
in a future year is contingent upon the availability of tax
credits in that particular year.
7. The department may adopt rules pursuant to chapter 17A to
administer this section.
Sec. 2. NEW SECTION. 422.10D Maternity group home tax
credit.
The tax imposed under this subchapter, less the credits
allowed under section 422.12, shall be reduced by a maternity
group home tax credit authorized pursuant to section 135E.1.
Sec. 3. Section 422.33, Code 2026, is amended by adding the
following new subsection:
NEW SUBSECTION. 11. The tax imposed under this subchapter
shall be reduced by a maternity group home tax credit

jm/jh

2/4

authorized pursuant to section 135E.1.
Sec. 4. Section 422.60, Code 2026, is amended by adding the
following new subsection:
NEW SUBSECTION. 16. The tax imposed under this subchapter
shall be reduced by a maternity group home tax credit
authorized pursuant to section 135E.1.
Sec. 5. NEW SECTION. 432.12P Maternity group home tax
credit.
The tax imposed under this chapter shall be reduced by a
maternity group home tax credit authorized pursuant to section
135E.1.
Sec. 6. Section 533.329, subsection 2, Code 2026, is amended
by adding the following new paragraph:
NEW PARAGRAPH. m. The moneys and credits tax imposed under
this section shall be reduced by a maternity group home tax
credit allowed under section 135E.1.
Sec. 7. APPLICABILITY. This Act applies to tax years
beginning on or after January 1, 2026.
EXPLANATION

The inclusion of this explanation does not constitute agreement with
the explanation’s substance by the members of the general assembly.

This bill creates a maternity group home tax credit
available against the individual, corporate, franchise,
insurance premium, and moneys and credits taxes.
The bill defines “maternity group home” to mean a
community-based residential home that provides room and board,
personal care, supervision, training, support, and education in
a family environment for women who are either pregnant or who
have given birth within the preceding 24 months and live with
their children, and includes overnight room accommodations and
administrative and office space for those persons who provide
such services.
The amount of the credit shall equal 100 percent of a
person’s donation to a maternity group home.
The bill specifies that the amount of the donation for which

jm/jh

3/4

the tax credit is claimed shall not be deductible for state
income tax purposes.
A credit provided in the bill in excess of tax liability
is not refundable and shall not be credited to a person’s
tax liability in future tax years. The tax credit shall not
be carried back to a tax year prior to the tax year in which
the person makes the donation, and the tax credit is also not
transferable.
The aggregate amount of tax credits authorized pursuant to
the bill shall not annually exceed $3.5 million.
The maximum amount of tax credits granted for donations to
an organization operating a maternity group home shall not
annually exceed $500,000.
The bill requires the department of revenue to administer
the credit and to approve applications on a first-come,
first-served basis until the maximum amount of tax credits
authorized for the year has been reached. A taxpayer must
submit an application to the department for each separate and
distinct donation within six months following the tax year of
the donation in such a manner approved by the department. The
bill also requires the department to develop a wait list in the
order the applications are received if applications for the
credit exceed the annual maximum amounts authorized.
The department may adopt rules to administer the bill.
The bill applies to tax years beginning on or after January
1, 2026.

jm/jh

4/4
