Session of 2026

House Concurrent Resolution No. 5034
By Representatives B. Carpenter, Blex, Bloom, Brantley, Brunk, Bryce, Buehler,
Butler, Chauncey, Croft, Droge, Ellis, Essex, Estes, Fairchild, Goddard, Goetz,
Helgerson, Helwig, Hoffman, Hoheisel, Howell, Howerton, Huebert, James,
Johnson, King, Long, McDonald, McNorton, Neelly, Pickert, Proctor, Reavis,
Resman, Rhiley, Roth, Sanders, Sappington, Sawyer, Schlingensiepen, Schmoe,
Schwertfeger, A. Smith, C. Smith, Steele, Stiens, Tarwater, Turk, Waggoner,
Waymaster, White, K. Williams, Wilson and Wolf
3-4

A PROPOSITION to amend the constitution of the state of Kansas by
revising article 11; establishing the freedom from taxes fund;
establishing the temporary Kansas citizens freedom review board;
authorizing the board to review tax exemptions and approve or
eliminate such exemptions; eliminating the motor vehicle property
taxes and fees, state-mandated and state-imposed property taxes and
state-imposed income and privilege taxes.
Be it resolved by the Legislature of the State of Kansas, two-thirds of the
members elected (or appointed) and qualified to the House of
Representatives and two-thirds of the members elected (or appointed)
and qualified to the Senate concurring therein:
Section 1. The following proposition to amend the constitution of
the state of Kansas shall be submitted to the qualified electors of the state
for their approval or rejection: Article 11 of the constitution of the state of
Kansas is hereby revised by amending Section 2 and adding a new
section to read as follows:
"§ 2. Taxation of incomes. Except as provided further, the
state shall have power to levy and collect taxes on incomes from
whatever source derived, which taxes may be graduated and
progressive. Upon the adoption by the legislature of a concurrent
resolution to eliminate the state income and privilege tax pursuant
to section 14 of this article 11, the provisions of this section shall
be null and void and have no force or effect.
"§ 14. Freedom from taxes section. (a) There is hereby
established the freedom from taxes fund. There shall be three subfunds within the freedom from taxes fund:
(1) The state motor vehicle property tax elimination fund,
which shall be solely dedicated to the elimination of motor
vehicle property taxes and any fees charged by either the state
or any subdivision of the state in order to register or title a

motor vehicle. There shall be a sub-fund in the state motor
vehicle property tax elimination fund to be called the motor
vehicle tax reserve fund, which shall be used solely to maintain
stable motor vehicle tax replacement payments. The motor
vehicle tax reserve fund shall not exceed 150% of the
authorized annual transfer from the state motor vehicle property
tax elimination fund to the state general fund. In any year that
the motor vehicle tax reserve fund meets such limitation, the
state treasurer shall not make any transfers into the motor
vehicle tax reserve fund, and such moneys shall be retained in
the state motor vehicle property tax elimination fund;
(2) the state property tax elimination fund, which shall be
solely dedicated to the elimination of state-mandated property
taxes and state-imposed property taxes. There shall be a subfund in the state property tax elimination fund to be called the
property tax reserve fund, which shall be used solely to
maintain stable property tax replacement payments. The
property tax reserve fund shall not exceed 150% of the
authorized annual transfer from the state property tax
elimination fund to the state general fund. In any year that the
property tax reserve fund meets such limitation, the state
treasurer shall not make any transfers into the property tax
reserve fund, and such moneys shall be retained in the state
property tax elimination fund; and
(3) the state income and privilege tax elimination fund,
which shall be solely dedicated to the elimination of stateimposed income and privilege taxes. There shall be a sub-fund
in the state income and privilege tax elimination fund to be
called the income tax reserve fund, which shall be used solely to
maintain stable income and privilege tax replacement payments.
The income tax reserve fund shall not exceed 150% of the
authorized annual transfer from the state income and privilege
tax elimination fund to the state general fund. In any year that
the income tax reserve fund meets such limitation, the state
treasurer shall not make any transfers into the income tax
reserve fund, and such moneys shall be retained in the state
income and privilege tax elimination fund.
(b) The freedom from taxes fund and any sub-funds within
such fund shall be administered by the state treasurer. All
expenditures from the freedom from taxes fund shall be solely
for the elimination of motor vehicle property taxes and fees,
state-mandated property taxes and state-imposed property taxes
and state-imposed income and privilege taxes and only

expended under the provisions of this section. All moneys
received by the state treasurer that are identified as moneys
collected by the state of Kansas as a result of the elimination, in
whole or in part, of the state sales and compensating use tax
exemptions, hereafter referred to as tax exemptions, and interest
earnings on such moneys shall be deposited in and credited to
the freedom from taxes fund.
(c) All moneys received by the state treasurer that are
identified as moneys collected by the state of Kansas as a result
of the elimination, in whole or in part, of the state tax
exemptions, including all moneys identified as principal in the
freedom from taxes fund, shall remain intact and inviolate and
shall not be appropriated, transferred, encumbered, borrowed
against or otherwise diminished for any purpose whatsoever.
Only the interest earnings on the freedom from taxes fund may
be expended or transferred as provided for under the provisions
of this section.
(d) All moneys in the freedom from taxes fund, including
principal and reserve balances, shall be invested and reinvested
by a money manager in a prudent and reasonable manner in
accordance with investment policies provided by law. The state
treasurer shall contract for the management of the moneys in the
freedom from taxes fund by a money manager. Prior to entering
into such contract, the contract shall be approved by the
legislature by the adoption of a concurrent resolution during any
regular or special session of the legislature. If the legislature
fails to adopt a concurrent resolution approving a contract, the
state treasurer is authorized to enter into such contract. The
contract shall be for a maximum term of five years but may be
renewed by the state treasurer and the legislature subject to the
provisions of this subsection. During any time following the
adjournment of the legislature sine die until the convening of
the ensuing session of the legislature, if for any reason the
money manager resigns or otherwise fails to perform such
manager's contractual duties, the state treasurer shall perform
the duties as money manager until a new contract has been
entered into and approved by the legislature as provided by this
subsection.
(e) (1) There is hereby established the Kansas citizens
freedom review board, which shall exist for the limited
purposes as provided for in this section.
(2) The composition, qualifications and manner of
appointment for the board shall be prescribed by law.

(3) The board shall review and approve or eliminate, in
whole or in part, any existing state tax exemptions to go into
effect for the next ensuing tax year.
(4) Upon completion of the review and issuance of the
determinations on all existing tax exemptions, the board shall
issue and submit a final report to the governor, the state
treasurer and the legislature not later than one year following
the effective date of the law to carry out the purposes of this
section. On the date of the submission of the final report, the
board shall be dissolved.
(f) (1) Following the elimination of such tax exemptions,
the state treasurer shall annually identify in each tax year the
amount of moneys collected in the state treasury that are
collected because of the elimination of such tax exemptions.
(2) Annually, the state treasurer shall transfer the amount
of such moneys to the state motor vehicle property tax
elimination fund of the freedom from taxes fund. Except as
provided further, the interest earnings on the state motor vehicle
property tax elimination fund shall be retained in such fund.
The state treasurer shall present an annual report to the
legislature on the balance of the state motor vehicle property tax
elimination fund identified by principal and interest earnings.
(3) When the state treasurer determines that the amount of
moneys identified as projected interest earnings in the state
motor vehicle property tax elimination fund is an amount
greater than: (A) An amount of moneys equal to 45% of the
interest earnings needed to eliminate all motor vehicle property
taxes and fees; (B) plus an amount of moneys needed to retain
45% of the interest earnings in the state motor vehicle property
tax elimination fund; and (C) plus an amount of moneys equal
to 10% of the interest earnings to be transferred to the motor
vehicle tax reserve fund, the state treasurer shall present such
determination to the legislature. Such determination shall be
approved by the legislature by the adoption of a concurrent
resolution during any regular or special session of the
legislature. Upon the adoption of such concurrent resolution,
such motor vehicle property taxes and fees shall be eliminated
in the next ensuing tax year. In such year, the state treasurer
shall transfer from the state motor vehicle property tax
elimination fund to the state general fund interest earnings in
the amount equal to the amount of moneys not collected
because of the elimination of motor vehicle property taxes and
fees. The state treasurer shall certify the amount of such

transfer. The legislature shall provide by law for any
distribution to local taxing subdivisions. In the ensuing tax
years, the amount transferred to the state general fund from the
state motor vehicle property tax elimination fund shall not
exceed 45% of the interest earned on the state motor vehicle
property tax elimination fund, subject to further adjustment
based on a five-year rolling average of interest earnings. During
the first five years in which the motor vehicle property taxes
and fees have been eliminated, the state treasurer shall
determine the average amount of interest earned during such
years, and annually determine such average interest earned.
During such years, the transfer from the state motor vehicle
property tax elimination fund to the state general fund shall be
further adjusted to include the amount of moneys equal to the
amount equating the average interest earned in dollars for that
year. In the sixth and subsequent years, the state treasurer shall
use the preceding five years to determine the average interest
earned and subject to transfer. Following the elimination of
motor vehicle property taxes and fees, in each year, the state
treasurer shall transfer an amount of moneys equal to 10% of
the average interest earnings to the motor vehicle tax reserve
fund and retain 45% of the average interest earnings in the state
motor vehicle property tax elimination fund.
(4) When the state treasurer makes the determination that
property tax or fees shall not be levied on any motor vehicle in
this state and the legislature approves such determination
pursuant to a concurrent resolution as provided in subsection (f)
(3), property tax or fees shall not be levied on any motor vehicle
in this state.
(5) Upon the elimination of motor vehicle property taxes
and fees, annually, the state treasurer shall transfer the amount
of such moneys that continue to be collected because of the
elimination of such tax exemptions to the state property tax
elimination fund of the freedom from taxes fund. Except as
provided further, the interest earnings on the state property tax
elimination fund shall be retained in such fund. The state
treasurer shall present an annual report to the legislature on the
balance of the state property tax elimination fund identified by
principal and interest earnings.
(6) When the state treasurer determines that the amount of
moneys identified as projected interest earnings in the state
property tax elimination fund is an amount greater than: (A) An
amount of moneys equal to 45% of the interest earnings needed

to eliminate state-mandated property tax levies and stateimposed property taxes; (B) plus an amount of moneys needed
to retain 45% of the interest earnings in the state property tax
elimination fund; and (C) plus an amount of moneys equal to
10% of the interest earnings to be transferred to the property tax
reserve fund, the state treasurer shall present such determination
to the legislature. Such determination shall be approved by the
legislature by the adoption of a concurrent resolution during any
regular or special session of the legislature. Upon the adoption
of such concurrent resolution, such state-mandated property tax
levies and state-imposed property taxes shall be eliminated in
the next ensuing tax year. In such year, the state treasurer shall
transfer from the state property tax elimination fund to the state
general fund interest earnings in the amount equal to the amount
of moneys not collected because of the elimination of statemandated property tax levies and state-imposed property taxes.
The state treasurer shall certify the amount of such transfer. The
legislature shall provide by law for any distribution to local
taxing subdivisions. In the ensuing tax years, the amount
transferred to the state general fund from the state property tax
elimination fund shall not exceed 45% of the interest earned on
the state property tax elimination fund, subject to further
adjustment based on a five-year rolling average of interest
earnings. During the first five years in which the state-mandated
property tax levies and state-imposed property taxes have been
eliminated, the state treasurer shall determine the average
amount of interest earned during such years, and annually
determine such average interest earned. During such years, the
transfer from the state property tax elimination fund to the state
general fund shall be further adjusted to include the amount of
moneys equal to the amount equating the average interest
earned in dollars for that year. In the sixth and succeeding years,
the state treasurer shall use the preceding five years to
determine the average interest earned and subject to transfer.
Following the elimination of state-mandated property tax levies
and state-imposed property taxes, in each year, the state
treasurer shall transfer an amount of moneys equal to 10% of
the average interest earnings to the property tax reserve fund
and retain 45% of the average interest earnings in the state
property tax elimination fund.
(7) When the state treasurer makes the determination that
state-mandated property tax or state-imposed property tax shall
not be levied on any property in this state and the legislature

approves such determination pursuant to a concurrent resolution
as provided in subsection (f)(6), state-mandated property tax or
state-imposed property tax shall not be levied on any property
in this state.
(8) Upon the elimination of motor vehicle property taxes
and fees, state-mandated property tax levies and state-imposed
property taxes, annually, the state treasurer shall transfer the
amount of such moneys that continue to be collected because of
the elimination of such tax exemptions to the state income and
privilege tax elimination fund of the freedom from taxes fund.
Except as provided further, the interest earnings on the state
income and privilege tax elimination fund shall be retained in
such fund. The state treasurer shall present an annual report to
the legislature on the balance of the state income and privilege
tax elimination fund identified by principal and interest
earnings.
(9) When the state treasurer determines that the amount of
moneys that are identified as projected interest earnings in the
state income and privilege tax elimination fund is an amount
greater than: (A) An amount of moneys equal to 45% of the
interest earnings needed to eliminate all state income and
privilege tax; (B) plus an amount of moneys needed to retain
45% of the interest earnings in the state income and privilege
tax elimination fund; and (C) plus an amount of moneys equal
to 10% of the interest earnings to be transferred to the income
tax reserve fund, the state treasurer shall present such
determination to the legislature. Such determination shall be
approved by the legislature by the adoption of a concurrent
resolution during any regular or special session of the
legislature. Upon the adoption of such concurrent resolution,
such state income and privilege tax shall be eliminated in the
next ensuing tax year. In such year, the state treasurer shall
transfer from the state income and privilege tax elimination
fund to the state general fund interest earnings in the amount
equal to the amount of moneys not collected because of the
elimination of state income and privilege tax. The state treasurer
shall certify the amount of such transfer. In the ensuing tax
years, the amount transferred to the state general fund from the
state income and privilege tax elimination fund shall not exceed
45% of the interest earned on the state income and privilege tax
elimination fund, subject to further adjustment based on a fiveyear rolling average of interest earnings. During the first five
years in which the state income and privilege tax have been

eliminated, the state treasurer shall determine the average
amount of interest earned during such years, and annually
determine such average interest earned. During such years, the
transfer from the state income and privilege tax elimination
fund to the state general fund shall be further adjusted to
include the amount of moneys equal to the amount equating the
average interest earned in dollars for that year. In the sixth and
succeeding years, the state treasurer shall use the preceding five
years to determine the average interest earned and subject to
transfer. Following the elimination of state income and privilege
tax, in each year, the state treasurer shall transfer an amount of
moneys equal to 10% of the average interest earnings to the
income tax reserve fund and shall retain 45% of the average
interest earnings in the state income and privilege tax
elimination fund.
(10) When the state treasurer makes the determination that
a state income tax on any income earned in this state or
privilege tax on net income on national banking associations,
banks, trust companies, federally chartered savings banks and
savings and loan associations shall not be levied in this state
and the legislature approves such determination pursuant to a
concurrent resolution as provided in subsection (f)(9), a state
income tax on any income earned in this state or privilege tax
on net income on national banking associations, banks, trust
companies, federally chartered savings banks and savings and
loan associations shall not be levied in this state.
(g) (1) If the Kansas citizens freedom review board
eliminates, in whole or in part, any existing state tax
exemptions, the legislature may enact new, identical or similar
tax exemptions during any following regular or special session
of the legislature. If the legislature enacts any state tax
exemptions, such tax exemptions shall expire at the end of the
tax year that is five years from the date of enactment, and the
legislature may eliminate such state tax exemptions at any time
during such five year period.
(2) If the Kansas citizens freedom review board approves,
in whole or in part, any existing state tax exemptions, such tax
exemptions shall expire at the end of the tax year that is five
years from the date of the submission of the final report.
(3) The legislature shall not consider renewing any tax
exemption that is currently in effect until the regular legislative
session immediately prior to the expiration of such tax
exemption.

(4) If the legislature enacts a law to eliminate, in whole or
in part, any existing state tax exemptions or any existing state
tax exemptions are allowed to expire, all moneys received by
the state treasurer that are identified as moneys collected by the
state of Kansas as a result of such elimination or expiration of
any state tax exemption shall be deposited in the state treasury
and credited to the freedom from taxes fund as provided for in
this section.
(5) If the legislature enacts a law to transfer or deposit
moneys into the freedom from taxes fund, such moneys shall be
transferred or deposited pursuant to such law until repealed. The
legislature shall not suspend such transfer or deposit through an
appropriation bill.
(h) Upon the date that the state treasurer determines that
the motor vehicle property tax elimination fund, the state
property tax elimination fund and the state income and privilege
tax elimination fund are fully funded in order for the interest
earnings from each such fund to reimburse the state general
fund or any local taxing subdivision, or both, for the lost
revenue as a result of eliminating the motor vehicle property tax
and fees, the state-mandated and state-imposed property tax and
the state income and privilege taxes, during any ensuing regular
session of the legislature, the legislature may:
(1) Determine, by two-thirds of the members elected (or
appointed) and qualified to the House of Representatives and
two-thirds of the members elected (or appointed) and qualified
to the Senate, whether to deposit the amount of moneys that are
identified as moneys collected by the state of Kansas as a result
of the elimination, in whole or in part, of the state tax
exemptions in the state general fund; or
(2) propose to the citizens of Kansas a constitutional
amendment to eliminate other forms of taxes or other forms of
governmental expenditures.
(i) The provisions of this section shall not apply to:
(1) Any federal exemptions established by the constitution
of the United States or federal law; or
(2) any exemptions that exist in law as of July 1, 2026, and
if elimination would result in the imposition of multiple layers
of sales taxes on the item of tangible personal property prior to
final sale of either the item or inclusion of the item as part of
another item when sold at retail.
(j) The legislature may enact laws to carry out the purposes
of this section.

(k) This amendment shall be effective on and after January
1, 2027."
Sec. 2. The following statement shall be printed on the ballot with
the amendment as a whole:
"Explanatory statement. This amendment creates the freedom
from taxes fund to eliminate property taxes and fees on
motor vehicles, reduce home property taxes and phase out
state income and privilege taxes over time.
"The fund is funded by ending wasteful or outdated tax
exemptions. A temporary Kansas citizens freedom review
board will review all exemptions and decide which to keep
or remove. If a popular tax break is cut, your elected
representatives can restore it. All special interest tax breaks
would be reviewed at least every five years.
"The fund would be a permanent savings account for the state.
It will grow over time and earn interest, and that interest will
be used to help pay for schools, roads and other priorities—
so the state can stop collecting certain taxes from you. The
freedom from taxes fund itself is protected by this
constitutional amendment, which means politicians are
legally blocked from spending or raiding it for other
purposes—guaranteeing it remains focused solely on
reducing your taxes now and for future generations of
Kansans.
"A vote for this proposition means ending state taxes on motor
vehicles, lowering home property taxes, and phasing out
state income and privilege taxes over time—without cutting
essential services. It creates the freedom from taxes fund and
a temporary Kansas citizens freedom review board to decide
which tax breaks to keep or eliminate. Future tax exemptions
would be limited to a duration of not to exceed five years
without further enactment by the legislature.
"A vote against this proposition means that the state of Kansas
will continue taxing motor vehicles, property, income and
privilege taxes to fund government operations. The state
constitution would remain unchanged."
Sec. 3. This resolution, if approved by two-thirds of the members
elected (or appointed) and qualified to the House of Representatives and
two-thirds of the members elected (or appointed) and qualified to the
Senate, shall be entered on the journals, together with the yeas and nays.
The secretary of state shall cause this resolution to be published as
provided by law and shall cause the proposed amendment to be submitted
to the electors of the state at the general election in November in the year

2026, unless a special election is called at a sooner date by concurrent
resolution of the legislature, in which case the proposed amendment shall
be submitted to the electors of the state at the special election.
