SECOND REGULAR SESSION
[TRULY AGREED TO AND FINALLY PASSED]
CONFERENCE COMMITTEE SUBSTITUTE FOR
HOUSE COMMITTEE SUBSTITUTE FOR
SENATE SUBSTITUTE FOR
SENATE COMMITTEE SUBSTITUTE FOR

SENATE BILLS NOS. 835 & 1111
103RD GENERAL ASSEMBLY

5285S.11T

AN ACT
To repeal sections 476.055, 478.003, 478.700, 488.426, 513.380, 513.430, 513.475, and 537.528,
RSMo, and to enact in lieu thereof eleven new sections relating to court procedures,
with penalty provisions and an effective date for certain sections.
Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

Section A.

Sections 476.055, 478.003, 478.700, 488.426,

513.380, 513.430, 513.475, and 537.528, RSMo, are repealed and

eleven new sections enacted in lieu thereof, to be known as
sections 379.135, 476.055, 478.003, 478.700, 488.426, 513.380,
513.423, 513.430, 513.475, 525.235, and 537.529, to read as
follows:

379.135.

1.

Upon payment by an insurer of all or any

part of a claimant's property damage claim, legal title to
the portion of the claim paid shall vest in the insurer to
the extent of such payment.

No assignment or other action

by the claimant shall be required for the insurer to enforce
its legal title.

The claimant shall retain legal title only

to that portion of the property damage claim not paid by the
insurer.

EXPLANATION-Matter enclosed in bold-faced brackets [thus] in this bill is not enacted
and is intended to be omitted in the law.

CCS HCS SS SCS SBs 835 & 1111

2.

As used in this section, "assignment agreement"

means any instrument by which post-loss benefits under any

policy of insurance covering property, including, but not

limited to, any right of action against the insurer or any
proceeds acquired from the insurer are assigned,

transferred, or acquired in any other manner, in whole or in
part, to or from a person providing services, including, but
not limited to, communicating with an insurer or on an

insured's behalf or inspecting, estimating, protecting,
repairing, restoring, or replacing the property or
mitigating against further damage to the property.
3.

(1)

A person shall not solicit or accept an

assignment, in whole or in part, of any post-loss insurance
benefit for property damage under a contract of insurance.

An assignment agreement is against public policy and is null
and void, and any contract entered into in violation of this
section shall be void and unenforceable; and
(2)

The provisions of this subsection shall not apply

to an assignment, transfer, pledge, or conveyance granted to
a financial institution, mortgagee, lienholder, or a
subsequent purchaser of the property; and
(3)

The provisions of this subsection shall not apply

to any covenant not to execute or contract to limit recovery
under section 537.065.
4.

A violation of subsection 3 of this section shall

5.

Nothing in this section shall be construed to

be considered a level two violation under section 374.049.
prohibit an insured from authorizing or directing payment
to, or paying, a person for services, materials, or any

other thing which may be, or is, covered under an insurance
policy.

Insurers shall issue payment directly to a person

for services, materials, and other items that are covered

CCS HCS SS SCS SBs 835 & 1111

under an insurance policy, when the insured agrees that any
person providing such services should be paid directly,
subject to applicable liens.
476.055.

1.

There is hereby established in the state

treasury the "Statewide Court Automation Fund".

All moneys

collected pursuant to section 488.027, as well as gifts,
contributions, devises, bequests, and grants received

relating to statewide court automation [of judicial record
keeping], and moneys received by the [judicial system]

judiciary for the dissemination of information [and], sales
of publications, or other provision of electronic services
developed relating to statewide court automation [of
judicial record keeping], as authorized by the court
automation committee, shall be credited to the fund.

Moneys

credited to this fund may only be used for the purposes set
forth in this section and as appropriated by the general
assembly.

Any unexpended balance remaining in the statewide

court automation fund at the end of each biennium shall not

be subject to the provisions of section 33.080 requiring the
transfer of such unexpended balance to general revenue.
2.

The statewide court automation fund shall be

administered by a court automation committee consisting of
the following[:

members:
(1)

the chief justice of the supreme court,]

A judge from the court of appeals, four circuit

judges, four associate circuit judges, four employees of

[the circuit court,] circuit courts, and two employees who
work full time in a municipal division of a circuit court,

[the commissioner of administration,] each of whom shall be

appointed by the chief justice of the Missouri supreme court;
(2)

Two members of the Missouri Bar, appointed by the

board of governors of the Missouri Bar;

CCS HCS SS SCS SBs 835 & 1111

(3)

Two members of the house of representatives

appointed by the speaker of the house, with one member being
from the majority party and one member being from the
minority party;
(4)

Two members of the senate appointed by the

president pro [tem] tempore of the senate, with one member

being from the majority party and one member being from the
minority party; and
(5)
(a)

Four additional ex officio members as follows:

The chief justice of the Missouri supreme court,

or the chief justice's designee;
(b)

The commissioner of administration, or the

(c)

The executive director of the Missouri [Office of

commissioner's designee;

Prosecution Services,] office of prosecution services, or
the executive director's designee; and
(d)

The director of the state public defender system,

[and two members of the Missouri Bar.

The judge members and

employee members shall be appointed by the chief justice.

The commissioner of administration shall serve ex officio.
The members of the Missouri Bar shall be appointed by the
board of governors of the Missouri Bar.

Any member of the

committee may designate another person to serve on the
committee in place of the committee member] or the
director's designee.

The appointed members of the committee shall serve for terms
of two years and until their successors are appointed and
qualified.

The members of the committee shall be reimbursed

from the statewide court automation fund for their actual
expenses in performing their official duties on the
committee.

CCS HCS SS SCS SBs 835 & 1111

3.

The committee shall develop and [implement a plan

for] maintain a statewide court automation system.

The

committee shall have the authority to hire consultants,

review systems in other jurisdictions, and purchase goods

and services to administer the provisions of this section.

The committee may implement [one or more] pilot projects in
the state [for the purposes of determining the feasibility
of developing and implementing such plan.

The members of

the committee shall be reimbursed from the court automation
fund for their actual expenses in performing their official
duties on the committee] at any time.
4.

Any purchase of computer software or computer

hardware that exceeds five thousand dollars shall be made

pursuant to the requirements of the office of administration
for lowest and best bid.

Such bids shall be subject to

acceptance by the office of administration.

The court

automation committee shall determine the specifications for
such bids.
5.

The court automation committee shall not require

any circuit court to change any operating system in such
court, unless the committee provides all [necessary]

personnel, funds, and equipment necessary to effectuate the
required changes.

No judicial circuit or county may be

reimbursed for any costs incurred pursuant to this

subsection unless such judicial circuit or county has the
approval of the court automation committee prior to
incurring the specific cost.
6.

[Any] The court automation system, including any

pilot project, shall be [implemented,] operated and

maintained in accordance with strict standards for the

security and privacy of confidential judicial records, as
provided by supreme court rule.

Any person who knowingly

CCS HCS SS SCS SBs 835 & 1111

releases information from a confidential judicial record is
guilty of a class B misdemeanor.

Any person who, knowing

that a judicial record is confidential, uses information

from such confidential judicial record for financial gain is
guilty of a class E felony.
7.

[On the first day of February, May, August and

November] No later than the fifteenth of January of each

year, the court automation committee shall electronically
file a report on the progress of the statewide court
automation system with the chairs of the following
committees:
(1)

The [chair of the] house budget committee, or its

(2)

The [chair of the] senate appropriations

(3)

The [chair of the] house judiciary committee, or

(4)

The [chair of the] senate judiciary committee, or

[8.

The court automation committee established

successor committee;

committee, or its successor committee;
its successor committee; and
its successor committee.

pursuant to this section may continue to function until
completion of its duties prescribed by this section.]
478.003.

1.

In any judicial circuit of this state, a

majority of the judges of the circuit court may designate a
judge to hear cases arising in the circuit subject to the
provisions of sections 478.001 to 478.009.

In lieu thereof

and subject to appropriations or other funds available for

such purpose, a majority of the judges of the circuit court
may appoint a person or persons to act as treatment court
commissioners.

Each commissioner shall be appointed for a

term of four years, but may be removed at any time by a
majority of the judges of the circuit court.

The

CCS HCS SS SCS SBs 835 & 1111

qualifications, compensation, and retirement benefits of the
commissioner shall be the same as that of an associate
circuit judge.

If the compensation of a commissioner

appointed pursuant to this section is provided from other

than state funds, the source of such fund shall pay to and
reimburse the state for the actual costs of the salary and
benefits of the commissioner.

The commissioner shall have

all the powers and duties of a circuit judge, except that

any order, judgment or decree of the commissioner shall be
confirmed or rejected by an associate circuit or circuit

judge by order of record entered within the time the judge

could set aside such order, judgment or decree had the same
been made by the judge.

If so confirmed, the order,

judgment or decree shall have the same effect as if made by
the judge on the date of its confirmation.
2.

The Missouri supreme court may assign a treatment

court commissioner to serve in the treatment court division
of a circuit other than the circuit in which the
commissioner is appointed.

The transfer shall only be

ordered with the consent and approval of the presiding judge
of the circuit to which the commissioner is to be assigned.
3.

A treatment court commissioner may serve as a

commissioner in any treatment court as designated by the

treatment court coordinating commission, subject to local
court rules.
4.

In each circuit having a treatment court division

that has neither a treatment court administrator nor a
treatment court commissioner, the court shall employ a

treatment court administrator, subject to appropriations or
other funds available for such purpose.

If the compensation

of an administrator employed pursuant to this subsection is
provided from other than state funds, the source of such

CCS HCS SS SCS SBs 835 & 1111

funds shall pay to and reimburse the state for the actual
costs of the salary and benefits of the administrator.
478.700.

1.

There shall be [two] three circuit judges

in the twenty-fifth judicial circuit [consisting of the
counties of Maries, Phelps, Pulaski and Texas].

These

judges shall sit in divisions numbered one [and], two, and
three.

These judgeships shall include the circuit judgeship

2.

The circuit judge in division two shall be elected

created in fiscal year 2026 under section 478.330.
in 1980.
in 1982.

The circuit judge in division one shall be elected
The circuit judge appointed by the governor in

for division three shall serve until January 1, 2029.

A circuit judge for division three shall be elected in 2028
for a four-year term and in 2032 for a full six-year term
and every six years thereafter.
488.426.

1.

The judges of the circuit court, en banc,

in any circuit in this state may require any party filing a
civil case in the circuit court, at the time of filing the

suit, to deposit with the clerk of the court a surcharge in
addition to all other deposits required by law or court
rule.

Sections 488.426 to 488.432 shall not apply to

proceedings when costs are waived or are to be paid by the
county or state or any city.
2.

The surcharge in effect on August 28, 2001, shall

remain in effect until changed by the circuit court.

The

circuit court in any circuit, except the circuit court in

Jackson County, the circuit court in the city of St. Louis,
or the circuit court in any circuit that reimburses the

state for the salaries of family court commissioners under
and pursuant to section 487.020, may change the fee to any
amount not to exceed fifteen dollars.

The circuit court in

Jackson County, the circuit court in the city of St. Louis,

CCS HCS SS SCS SBs 835 & 1111

or the circuit court in any circuit that reimburses the

state for the salaries of family court commissioners under
and pursuant to section 487.020 may change the fee to any
amount not to exceed twenty dollars.

A change in the fee

shall become effective and remain in effect until further
changed.
3.

Sections 488.426 to 488.432 shall not apply to

proceedings when costs are waived or are paid by the county
or state or any city.
[4.

In addition to any fee authorized by subsection 1

of this section, any county of the first classification with
more than one hundred one thousand but fewer than one
hundred fifteen thousand inhabitants may impose an

additional fee of ten dollars excluding cases concerning
adoption and those in small claims court.

The provisions of

this subsection shall expire on December 31, 2019.]
513.380.

1.

[Whenever an execution against the

property of any judgment debtor, individual or corporate,
issued from any court in this state, shall be returned

unsatisfied, in whole or in part, by any sheriff or other

proper officer, the] A judgment creditor [in such execution,
his executor, administrator or assign, may,] shall upon

motion made at any time [within five years after such return
so made] before the judgment has been satisfied of record by
the judgment creditor and before the judgment being presumed
paid and satisfied under section 516.350, be entitled to an
order by the court rendering such judgment, requiring the
judgment debtor or, in the case of a corporate judgment

debtor, its chief officer to appear before such court at a
time and place in said order to be named, to undergo an

examination under oath touching his or her ability and means
to satisfy said judgment, and in case of neglect or refusal

CCS HCS SS SCS SBs 835 & 1111

on the part of such judgment debtor or, in the case of a

corporate debtor, its chief officer to obey such order, such
court is hereby authorized to issue a writ of attachment

against said debtor, as now provided by law, and to punish

him or, in the case of a corporate debtor, its chief officer
for contempt.
2.

[Any prosecuting attorney or circuit attorney may

grant use immunity from prosecution to a judgment debtor for
any statement made at a judgment debtor's examination
conducted pursuant to subsection 1 of this section.

Such

use immunity from prosecution shall protect such person from
prosecution for any offense related to the content of the
statements made] For any statement made at a judgment

debtor's examination and conducted pursuant to subsection 1
of this section, a judgment debtor shall enjoy full use
immunity and derivative use immunity from prosecution

coextensive with their constitutional privilege against selfincrimination.

No testimony or other information directly

or indirectly derived therefrom, compelled under subsection
of this section, may be used against the witness in any

criminal case, except a prosecution for perjury or giving a
false statement.
513.423.

1.

On April 1, 2029, and on each three-year

interval ending on April first thereafter, each dollar

amount in effect under sections 513.430 and 513.475 shall be
adjusted:
(1)

To reflect the change in the Consumer Price Index

for All Urban Consumers, published by the United States

Department of Labor, or its successor index, for the most

recent three-year period ending immediately before January
first preceding such April first; and

CCS HCS SS SCS SBs 835 & 1111

(2)

To round to the nearest twenty-five dollars the

2.

Not later than March 1, 2029, and at each three-

dollar amount that represents such change.

year interval ending on March first thereafter, the revisor
of statutes shall publish a schedule of adjusted dollar

amounts, which will become effective on such April first,
annually in an appendix to the revised statutes of
Missouri.

The revisor of statutes shall place a revisor's

note following section 513.430 or 513.475 referencing the
appendix of the adjusted dollar amount.
3.

Adjustments made in accordance with subsection 1 of

this section shall not apply with respect to cases commenced
before the date of such adjustments.
513.430.

1.

The following property shall be exempt

from attachment and execution to the extent of any person's
interest therein:
(1)

Household furnishings, household goods, wearing

apparel, appliances, books, animals, crops or musical

instruments that are held primarily for personal, family or
household use of such person or a dependent of such person,
not to exceed [three] fifteen thousand dollars in value in
the aggregate;
(2)

A wedding ring not to exceed one thousand five

hundred dollars in value and other jewelry held primarily

for the personal, family or household use of such person or
a dependent of such person, not to exceed [five] one

thousand seven hundred dollars in value in the aggregate;
(3)

Any other property of any kind, not to exceed in

value [six] one thousand seven hundred dollars in the
aggregate;
(4)

Any implements or professional books or tools of

the trade of such person or the trade of a dependent of such

CCS HCS SS SCS SBs 835 & 1111

person not to exceed three thousand dollars in value in the
aggregate;
(5)

Any motor vehicles, not to exceed [three] five

thousand dollars in value in the aggregate plus up to ten
thousand dollars of any unused amount of the exemption

provided under subdivision (1) of this subsection may be
allocated to a motor vehicle;
(6)

Any mobile home used as the principal residence

but not attached to real property in which the debtor has a
fee interest, not to exceed [five] twelve thousand dollars
in value;
(7)

Any one or more unmatured life insurance contracts

owned by such person, other than a credit life insurance

contract, and up to fifteen thousand dollars of any matured
life insurance proceeds for actual funeral, cremation, or

burial expenses where the deceased is the spouse, child, or
parent of the beneficiary;
(8)

The amount of any accrued dividend or interest

under, or loan value of, any one or more unmatured life

insurance contracts owned by such person under which the

insured is such person or an individual of whom such person

is a dependent; provided, however, that if proceedings under
Title 11 of the United States Code are commenced by or

against such person, the amount exempt in such proceedings

shall not exceed in value one hundred fifty thousand dollars
in the aggregate less any amount of property of such person
transferred by the life insurance company or fraternal

benefit society to itself in good faith if such transfer is
to pay a premium or to carry out a nonforfeiture insurance
option and is required to be so transferred automatically

under a life insurance contract with such company or society
that was entered into before commencement of such

CCS HCS SS SCS SBs 835 & 1111

proceedings.

No amount of any accrued dividend or interest

under, or loan value of, any such life insurance contracts
shall be exempt from any claim for child support.

Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, no such amount

shall be exempt in such proceedings under any such insurance
contract which was purchased by such person within one year
prior to the commencement of such proceedings;
(9)

Professionally prescribed health aids for such

(10)

Such person's right to receive:

person or a dependent of such person;
(a)

A Social Security benefit, unemployment

(b)

A veteran's benefit;

(d)

Alimony, support or separate maintenance, not to

compensation or a public assistance benefit;
(c)

A disability, illness or unemployment benefit;

exceed seven hundred fifty dollars a month;
(e)

a.

Any payment under a stock bonus plan, pension

plan, disability or death benefit plan, profit-sharing plan,
nonpublic retirement plan or any plan described, defined, or
established pursuant to section 456.014, the person's right
to a participant account in any deferred compensation

program offered by the state of Missouri or any of its
political subdivisions, or annuity or similar plan or

contract on account of illness, disability, death, age or
length of service, to the extent reasonably necessary for

the support of such person and any dependent of such person
unless:

(i)

Such plan or contract was established by or under

the auspices of an insider that employed such person at the

time such person's rights under such plan or contract arose;
(ii)

Such payment is on account of age or length of

service; and

CCS HCS SS SCS SBs 835 & 1111

(iii)

Such plan or contract does not qualify under

Section 401(a), 403(a), 403(b), 408, 408A or 409 of the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, (26 U.S.C.
Section 401(a), 403(a), 403(b), 408, 408A or 409).
b.

Notwithstanding the exemption provided in

subparagraph a. of this paragraph, any such payment to any

person shall be subject to attachment or execution pursuant
to a qualified domestic relations order, as defined by

Section 414(p) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (26

U.S.C. Section 414(p)), as amended, issued by a court in any
proceeding for dissolution of marriage or legal separation
or a proceeding for disposition of property following

dissolution of marriage by a court which lacked personal

jurisdiction over the absent spouse or lacked jurisdiction
to dispose of marital property at the time of the original
judgment of dissolution;
(f)

Any money or assets, payable to a participant or

beneficiary from, or any interest of any participant or
beneficiary in, a retirement plan, profit-sharing plan,

health savings [plan] account, or similar plan, including an
inherited account or plan, that is qualified under Section
223, 401(a), 403(a), 403(b), 408, 408A or 409 of the

Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C. Section 223,

401(a), 403(a), 403(b), 408, 408A, or 409), as amended,

whether such participant's or beneficiary's interest arises
by inheritance, designation, appointment, or otherwise,
except as provided in this paragraph.

Any plan or

arrangement described in this paragraph shall not be exempt
from the claim of an alternate payee under a qualified

domestic relations order; however, the interest of any and
all alternate payees under a qualified domestic relations
order shall be exempt from any and all claims of any

CCS HCS SS SCS SBs 835 & 1111

creditor, other than the state of Missouri through its
department of social services.

the terms "alternate payee" and "qualified domestic

relations order" have the meaning given to them in Section
414(p) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C.

Section 414(p)), as amended. If proceedings under Title 11
of the United States Code are commenced by or against such
person, no amount of funds shall be exempt in such

proceedings under any such plan, contract, or trust which is
fraudulent as defined in subsection 2 of section 428.024 and
for the period such person participated within three years
prior to the commencement of such proceedings.

funds are recovered and after, such funds shall be deducted
and then treated as though the funds had never been
contributed to the plan, contract, or trust;
(11)

of an individual of whom the debtor was a dependent, to the
extent reasonably necessary for the support of the debtor
and any dependent of the debtor;
(12)

the aggregate;
(13)

Any moneys accruing to and deposited in

individual savings accounts or individual deposit accounts
under sections 166.400 to 166.456 or sections 166.500 to
166.529, subject to the following provisions:
(a)

This subdivision shall apply to any proceeding

a.

Is filed on or after January 1, 2022; or

Firearms, firearm accessories, and ammunition,

not to exceed one thousand five hundred dollars in value in

The debtor's right to receive, or property that

is traceable to, a payment on account of the wrongful death

For the

purposes of this section, when the fraudulently conveyed

As used in this paragraph,

that:

CCS HCS SS SCS SBs 835 & 1111

b.

Was filed before January 1, 2022, and is pending or

(b)

Except as provided by paragraph (c) of this

on appeal after January 1, 2022;

subdivision, if the designated beneficiary of an individual
savings account or individual deposit account established
under sections 166.400 to 166.456 or sections 166.500 to
166.529 is a lineal descendant of the account owner, all
moneys in the account shall be exempt from any claims of

creditors of the account owner or designated beneficiary;
(c)

The provisions of paragraph (b) of this

a.

Claims of any creditor of an account owner as to

subdivision shall not apply to:

amounts contributed within a two-year period preceding the

date of the filing of a bankruptcy petition under 11 U.S.C.
Section 101 et seq., as amended; or
b.

Claims of any creditor of an account owner as to

amounts contributed within a one-year period preceding an
execution on judgment for such claims against the account
owner.

2.

Nothing in this section shall be interpreted to

exempt from attachment or execution for a valid judicial or
administrative order for the payment of child support or

maintenance any money or assets, payable to a participant or
beneficiary from, or any interest of any participant or
beneficiary in, a retirement plan which is qualified

pursuant to Sections 408 and 408A of the Internal Revenue

Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C. Sections 408 and 408A), as amended.
513.475.

1.

The homestead of every person, consisting

of a dwelling house and appurtenances, and the land used in
connection therewith, not exceeding the aggregate value of

[fifteen] forty thousand dollars, which is or shall be used
by such person as a homestead, shall, together with the

CCS HCS SS SCS SBs 835 & 1111

rents, issues and products thereof, be exempt from
attachment and execution.

The exemption allowed under this

section shall not be allowed for more than one owner of any
homestead if one owner claims the entire amount allowed

under this subsection; but, if more than one owner of any
homestead claims an exemption under this section, the

exemption allowed to each of such owners shall not exceed,
in the aggregate, the total exemption allowed under this
subsection as to any one homestead.
2.

Either spouse separately shall be debarred from and

incapable of selling, mortgaging or alienating the homestead
in any manner whatever, and every such sale, mortgage or
alienation is hereby declared null and void; provided,

however, that nothing herein contained shall be so construed
as to prevent the husband and wife from jointly conveying,
mortgaging, alienating or in any other manner disposing of
such homestead, or any part thereof.
525.235.

1.

For purposes of this section, the term

"financial institution" means a federally insured bank,

savings bank, savings and loan association, or credit union.
2.

All orders of garnishment issued in this state for

the purpose of attaching to account funds on deposit held by
a financial institution shall be issued only under this
section and shall attach only to such funds held by the
financial institution on the date of service on the

financial institution, provided the effective date of

service shall be a banking day and provided service is made
prior to the financial institution's business cutoff time,

otherwise the service on the financial institution shall be
effective on the next banking day.

If an account receives

electronic deposits of exempt protected funds, including,

but not limited to, funds described under subdivision (10)

CCS HCS SS SCS SBs 835 & 1111

of subsection 1 of section 513.430, the attachment date for
such account shall be the date and banking day that the

financial institution applies for the federally required
look-back analysis to determine the protected amount.

The

return date for orders of garnishment under this section

shall not be less than thirty days from the effective date
of service.
3.

All orders of garnishment issued in this state for

the purpose of attaching to account funds held by a

financial institution shall include the judgment debtor's
address and the last four digits of the debtor's tax

identification number, if known, and shall specify the
amount of funds to be withheld by the garnishee.
4.

If an order of garnishment attaches to account

funds held by a financial institution and the garnishee

holds funds of the judgment debtor in two or more accounts,
the garnishee may withhold payment of the amount attached
from any accounts belonging to a judgment debtor and such

accounts may have a different attachment date if necessary
for the federally required look-back analysis.
5.

If an order of garnishment attaches to account

funds held by a financial institution and the garnishee

holds funds of the judgment debtor in an account which the
judgment debtor owns in joint tenancy with one or more

individuals who are not subject to the garnishment, the

garnishee shall withhold the entire amount sought by the
garnishment.

The garnishee shall provide a copy of the

order of garnishment to each account holder within two

business days to the address provided to the garnishee by

each account holder by mail or electronically if authorized
by the account holder.

Each account holder may file an

objection or request of exemption of all or a portion of the

CCS HCS SS SCS SBs 835 & 1111

account with the court that issued the order of garnishment
within thirty days of the date the garnishment attaches and
serve their objection or request for exemption on the
garnishor and the garnishee.

If the objection or request of

exemption is not resolved within thirty days of the timely
filing of the objection or request of exemption, the

garnishee may pay the garnished funds to the circuit court
to be held for pending resolution of the objection or
request.
6.

No party shall seek an order of garnishment

attaching to account funds held by a financial institution

except on good faith belief of the party seeking garnishment
that the party to be served with the garnishment order has,
or will have, account assets of the judgment debtor.

as provided in this subsection, not more than one

Except

garnishment shall be issued by a party seeking an order of
garnishment under this section for the same garnishee

applicable to the same claim or claims and against the same
judgment debtor in any thirty-day period.

A judge may order

an exception to this subsection in any case in which the

party seeking the garnishment shall in person or by attorney:
(1)

Certify that the garnishment is not for the

(2)

State facts demonstrating to the satisfaction of

purpose of harassment of the debtor; and

the judge that there is reason to believe that the garnishee
has property of the debtor which is not exempt from
execution.
7.

No financial institution shall have a duty to

8.

A financial institution served an order of

investigate or assert any defenses of a judgment debtor.
garnishment and interrogatories under this section shall
answer within twenty days.

Funds shall be released to the

CCS HCS SS SCS SBs 835 & 1111

judgment debtor sixty days after an answer is submitted, or
sooner if required under an order to pay, or paid into the

court if objections are filed by the judgment debtor and the
financial institution is served with a copy of the
objections.
9.

This section does not apply to wage garnishments or

to garnishments of property other than account funds held by
a financial institution and a garnishment issued under this

section does not require a garnishee to search for, hold, or
return wages or other property.

A garnishment under this

section does not require a garnishee to report or hold or
respond to interrogatories not related to account funds.
10.

This section does not limit the authority of a

garnishor to obtain and issue an order of garnishment and
interrogatories for wages or for property, other than

account funds, held by a financial institution pursuant to
law and the rules of the Missouri supreme court.
11.

(1)

A garnishee acting in good faith compliance

with a facially valid order of garnishment under this

section shall not be liable to any debtor, creditor, or
other person for withholding, restraining, or releasing

funds in reasonable reliance upon the terms of the writ or
order.

(2)
(a)

A garnishee shall not be required to:

Adjudicate competing claims of ownership to

property or funds;
(b)

Determine the legal sufficiency or validity of the

(c)

Investigate facts outside the information

(3)

A garnishee shall be liable for damages arising

underlying judgment; or

contained in the writ or the garnishee's business records.
from a garnishment only if:

CCS HCS SS SCS SBs 835 & 1111

(a)

The garnishee fails to follow the clear and

(b)

Such failure constitutes gross negligence or

(c)

Actual damages are proven.

express terms of the writ or order;
willful misconduct; and
(4)

A garnishee shall not be liable if the garnishee

corrects an error within five business days after receiving
written notice identifying the alleged error and promptly
releases any improperly restrained funds.
(5)

Temporary restraint of funds pending review of a

claimed exemption shall not create liability if the

garnishee, garnishor, and judgment debtor or other persons
act within time frames required by law.
12.

The provisions of subsections 1 to 11 of this

13.

The provisions of this section shall be

section shall be effective January 1, 2028.

implemented and administered in accordance with rules of the
Missouri supreme court.
537.529.

1.

This section shall be known and may be

cited as the "Uniform Public Expression Protection Act".
2.

(1)

As used in this section, the following terms mean:
"Governmental unit", any city, county, or other

political subdivision of this state, or any department,
division, board, or other agency of any political
subdivision of this state;
(2)

"Person", an individual, estate, trust,

partnership, business or nonprofit entity, governmental
unit, or other legal entity.
3.

Except as otherwise provided in subsection 4 of

this section, the provisions of this section shall apply to
any cause of action asserted in a civil action against a
person based on the person's:

CCS HCS SS SCS SBs 835 & 1111

(1)

Communication in a legislative, executive,

(2)

Communication on an issue under consideration or

judicial, administrative, or other governmental proceeding;
review in a legislative, executive, judicial,

administrative, or other governmental proceeding; or
(3)

Exercise of the right of freedom of speech or of

the press, the right to assemble or petition, or the right

of association, guaranteed by the Constitution of the United
States or the Constitution of the state of Missouri, on a
matter of public concern.
4.

The provisions of this section shall not apply to a

(1)

Against a governmental unit or an employee or

cause of action asserted:

agent of a governmental unit acting or purporting to act in
an official capacity;
(2)

By a governmental unit or an employee or agent of

a governmental unit acting in an official capacity to

enforce a law to protect against an imminent threat to
public health or safety; or
(3)

Against a person primarily engaged in the business

of selling or leasing goods or services if the cause of

action arises out of a communication related to the person's
sale or lease of the goods or services.

As used in this subsection, the term "goods or services"
shall not include any dramatic, literary, musical,
political, journalistic, or artistic work.
5.

No later than sixty days after a party is served

with a complaint, crossclaim, counterclaim, third-party

claim, or other pleading that asserts a cause of action to
which this section applies, or at a later time upon a

CCS HCS SS SCS SBs 835 & 1111

showing of good cause, a party may file a special motion to
dismiss the cause of action or part of the cause of action.
6.

(1)

(a)

All other proceedings between the moving party and

subsection:

Except as otherwise provided in this

responding party in an action, including discovery and a
pending hearing or motion, are stayed on the filing of a
motion under subsection 5 of this section; and
(b)
a.

On motion by the moving party, the court may stay:

A hearing or motion involving another party if the

ruling on the hearing or motion would adjudicate a legal or
factual issue that is material to the motion under
subsection 5 of this section; or
b.

Discovery by another party if the discovery relates

to a legal or factual issue that is material to the motion
under subsection 5 of this section.
(2)

A stay under subdivision (1) of this subsection

remains in effect until entry of an order ruling on the
motion filed under subsection 5 of this section and the
expiration of the time to appeal the order.
(3)

If a party appeals from an order ruling on a

motion under subsection 5 of this section, all proceedings
between all parties in an action are stayed.

The stay

remains in effect until the conclusion of the appeal.
(4)

During a stay under subdivision (1) of this

subsection, the court may allow limited discovery if a party
shows that specific information is necessary to establish

whether a party has satisfied or failed to satisfy a burden
imposed by subdivision (1) of subsection 9 of this section
and is not reasonably available without discovery.

CCS HCS SS SCS SBs 835 & 1111

(5)

A motion for costs and expenses under subsection

of this section shall not be subject to a stay under this
section.
(6)

A stay under this subsection does not affect a

party's ability to voluntarily dismiss a cause of action or

part of a cause of action or move to sever a cause of action.
(7)

During a stay under this section, the court for

(a)

A motion unrelated to the motion under subsection

(b)

A motion seeking a special or preliminary

good cause may hear and rule on:
of this section; and

injunction to protect against an imminent threat to public
health or safety.
7.

(1)

The court shall hear a motion under subsection

of this section no later than sixty days after filing of
the motion, unless the court orders a later hearing:
(a)

To allow discovery under subdivision (4) of

(b)

For other good cause.

subsection 6 of this section; or
(2)

If the court orders a later hearing under

paragraph (a) of subdivision (1) of this subsection, the
court shall hear the motion under subsection 5 of this
section no later than sixty days after the court order
allowing the discovery, subject to paragraph (b) of
subdivision (1) of this subsection.
8.

In ruling on a motion under subsection 5 of this

section, the court shall consider the parties' pleadings,

the motion, any replies and responses to the motion, and any
evidence that could be considered in ruling on a motion for
summary judgment.

CCS HCS SS SCS SBs 835 & 1111

9.

(1)

In ruling on a motion under subsection 5 of

this section, the court shall dismiss with prejudice a cause
of action or part of a cause of action if:
(a)

The moving party establishes under subsection 3 of

(b)

The responding party fails to establish as

this section that this section applies;

provided in subsection 4 of this section that this section
does not apply; and
(c)
a.

Either:

The responding party fails to establish a prima

facie case as to each essential element of the cause of
action; or
b.

(i)

The moving party establishes that:

The responding party failed to state a cause of

action upon which relief can be granted; or
(ii)

There is no genuine issue as to any material fact

and the party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law on
the cause of action or part of the cause of action.
(2)

A voluntary dismissal without prejudice of a

responding party's cause of action, or part of a cause of

action, that is the subject of a motion under subsection 5
of this section does not affect a moving party's right to
obtain a ruling on the motion and seek costs, reasonable

attorney's fees, and reasonable litigation expenses under
subsection 12 of this section.
(3)

A voluntary dismissal with prejudice of a

responding party's cause of action, or part of a cause of

action, that is the subject of a motion under subsection 5

of this section establishes for the purpose of subsection 12
of this section that the moving party prevailed on the
motion.

CCS HCS SS SCS SBs 835 & 1111

10.

The court shall rule on a motion under subsection

of this section no later than sixty days after the hearing
under subsection 7 of this section.
11.

A moving party may appeal within twenty-one days

as a matter of right from an order denying, in whole or in
part, a motion under subsection 5 of this section.
12.

On a motion under subsection 5 of this section,

the court shall award costs, reasonable attorney's fees, and
reasonable litigation expenses related to the motion:
(1)

To the moving party if the moving party prevails

(2)

To the responding party if the responding party

on the motion; or

prevails on the motion and the court finds that the motion
was frivolous or filed solely with intent to delay the
proceeding.
13.

This section shall be broadly construed and

applied to protect the exercise of the right of freedom of

speech and of the press, the right to assemble and petition,
and the right of association, guaranteed by the Constitution
of the United States or the Constitution of the state of
Missouri.
14.

In applying and construing this section,

consideration shall be given to the need to promote

uniformity of the law with respect to its subject matter
among states that enact it.
15.

The provisions of this section shall apply to any

civil action filed, or any cause of action asserted in a
civil action, on or after August 28, 2026.

[537.528. 1. Any action against a person
for conduct or speech undertaken or made in
connection with a public hearing or public
meeting, in a quasi-judicial proceeding before a
tribunal or decision-making body of the state or

CCS HCS SS SCS SBs 835 & 1111

any political subdivision of the state is
subject to a special motion to dismiss, motion
for judgment on the pleadings, or motion for
summary judgment that shall be considered by the
court on a priority or expedited basis to ensure
the early consideration of the issues raised by
the motion and to prevent the unnecessary
expense of litigation. Upon the filing of any
special motion described in this subsection, all
discovery shall be suspended pending a decision
on the motion by the court and the exhaustion of
all appeals regarding the special motion.
2. If the rights afforded by this section
are raised as an affirmative defense and if a
court grants a motion to dismiss, a motion for
judgment on the pleadings or a motion for
summary judgment filed within ninety days of the
filing of the moving party's answer, the court
shall award reasonable attorney fees and costs
incurred by the moving party in defending the
action. If the court finds that a special
motion to dismiss or motion for summary judgment
is frivolous or solely intended to cause
unnecessary delay, the court shall award costs
and reasonable attorney fees to the party
prevailing on the motion.
3. Any party shall have the right to an
expedited appeal from a trial court order on the
special motions described in subsection 2 of
this section or from a trial court's failure to
rule on the motion on an expedited basis.
4. As used in this section, a "public
meeting in a quasi-judicial proceeding" means
and includes any meeting established and held by
a state or local governmental entity, including
without limitations meetings or presentations
before state, county, city, town or village
councils, planning commissions, review boards or
commissions.
5. Nothing in this section limits or
prohibits the exercise of a right or remedy of a
party granted pursuant to another
constitutional, statutory, common law or

CCS HCS SS SCS SBs 835 & 1111

administrative provision, including civil
actions for defamation.
6. If any provision of this section or the
application of any provision of this section to
a person or circumstance is held invalid, the
invalidity shall not affect other provisions or
applications of this section that can be given
effect without the invalid provision or
application, and to this end the provisions of
this section are severable.
7. The provisions of this section shall
apply to all causes of actions.]

Section B.

The enactment of section 513.423 and the

repeal and reenactment of sections 513.380, 513.430, and
513.475 of this act shall become effective on January 1,
2027.


