SECOND REGULAR SESSION
[TRULY AGREED TO AND FINALLY PASSED]
HOUSE COMMITTEE SUBSTITUTE FOR

SENATE BILL NO. 953
103RD GENERAL ASSEMBLY
4505H.04T

AN ACT
To repeal sections 640.144, 640.220, 643.350, 644.021, 644.051, and 644.059, RSMo, and to enact
in lieu thereof seven new sections relating to environmental programs within the
department of natural resources.
Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

Section A.

Sections 640.144, 640.220, 643.350, 644.021,

644.051, and 644.059, RSMo, are repealed and seven new sections

enacted in lieu thereof, to be known as sections 640.144,

640.220, 643.350, 644.021, 644.051, 644.059, and 644.083, to

read as follows:

640.144.

1. All community water systems shall be

required to create a valve inspection program that includes:

(1) Inspection of all valves every ten years;

(2) Scheduled repair or replacement of broken valves;

and
(3) Within five years of August 28, 2020,

identification of each shut-off valve location using a

geographic information system or an alternative physical

mapping system that accurately identifies the location of

each valve.

2. All community water systems shall be required to
create a hydrant inspection program that includes:

EXPLANATION-Matter enclosed in bold-faced brackets [thus] in this bill is not enacted
and is intended to be omitted in the law.

(1) Scheduled testing of every hydrant in the
community water system;

(2) Scheduled repair or replacement of broken hydrants;

(3) A plan to flush every hydrant and dead-end main;

(4) Maintenance of records of inspections, tests, and

flushings for six years; and
(5) Within five years of August 28, 2020,

identification of each hydrant location using a geographic

information system or an alternative physical mapping system

that accurately identifies the location of each hydrant.

3. The provisions of this section shall not apply to

any state parks, cities with a population of more than

thirty thousand inhabitants, [a] any county with a charter

form of government and with more than six hundred thousand

but fewer than seven hundred thousand inhabitants, [a] any

county with a charter form of government and with more than

nine hundred fifty thousand inhabitants, or [a] any public

service commission regulated utility with more than thirty

thousand customers.

640.220.

1. For the purpose of protecting the air,

water and land resources of the state, there is hereby

created in the state treasury a fund to be known as the

"Natural Resources Protection Fund".

from air pollution permit fees, gifts, bequests, donations,

or any other moneys so designated shall be paid to the

director of the department of natural resources, transmitted

to the director of revenue and deposited in the state

treasury to the credit of an appropriate subaccount of the

natural resources protection fund and shall be used for the

purposes specified by law.

revenues shall be deposited in an appropriate subaccount of

the natural resources protection fund and, subject to

All funds received

The air pollution permit fee

appropriation by the general assembly, shall be used by the

department to carry out the general administration of

section 643.075.

generated through sections 644.052, 644.053, 644.054 and

644.061 shall be paid to the director of the department of

natural resources, transmitted to the director of the

department of revenue and deposited to the credit of the

water pollution permit fee subaccount of the natural

resources protection fund and, subject to appropriation by

the general assembly, shall be used by the department to

carry out the administration of sections 644.006 to 644.141.

The water pollution permit fee revenues

2. Effective July 1, 1991, and before June 30, 2027,

the provisions of section 33.080 to the contrary

notwithstanding, any unexpended balance in the subaccounts

of the natural resources protection fund that exceeds the

preceding biennium's collections shall revert to the general

revenue fund of the state at the end of each biennium.

Beginning July 1, 2027, any unexpended balance in the

subaccounts of the natural resources protection fund that

exceeds the preceding biennium's collections shall not

revert to the general revenue fund of the state at the end

of each biennium.

resources protection funds shall accrue to appropriate

subaccounts.

3.

All interest earned on the natural

Beginning July 1, 2027, and annually on July first

of each succeeding year, the commissioner of administration

shall use taxable sales reports to estimate the amount of

state general revenue sales and use tax derived from

electric power distribution (NAICS code 221122, or its

successor) in the immediately preceding calendar year and

shall report such amount to the state treasurer.

treasurer shall transfer five percent of such general

The state

revenue sales and use taxes to the air pollution permit fees

subaccount of the natural resources protection fund and such

funds, subject to appropriation by the general assembly,

shall be used by the department solely for the purpose of

funding the air pollution control program.

law to the contrary notwithstanding, amounts transferred in

accordance with this subsection shall not revert to the

general revenue fund of the state at the end of each

biennium and shall be used solely for the purpose of funding

the air pollution control program.

643.350.

Any provision of

1. A fee, not to exceed twenty-four dollars,

may be charged for an emissions inspection conducted under

the emissions inspection program established pursuant to

sections 643.300 to 643.355.

2. The fee shall be conspicuously posted on the
premises of each emissions inspection station.

3. The commission shall establish, by rule, the

portion of the fee amount to be remitted by the emission

inspection station to the director of revenue and the number

of days allowed for remitting fees.

4. The official emission inspection station shall

remit the portion of fees collected, as established by the

commission pursuant to this section, to the state treasurer

within the time period established by the commission.

state treasurer shall deposit the fees received in the state

treasury to the credit of the "Missouri Air Emission

Reduction Fund", which is hereby created.

fund shall, subject to appropriation, be expended for the

administration and enforcement of sections 643.300 to

643.355 by the department of natural resources, the Missouri

highway patrol, and other appropriate agencies.

in the fund at the end of the biennium shall remain in the

The

Moneys in the

Any balance

fund and shall not be subject to the provisions of section

33.080. All interest earned by moneys in the fund shall

accrue to the fund.

year, the state's net general revenue did not increase by

two percent or more, the state treasurer may deposit moneys,

except for gifts, donations, or bequests, received under

this section beginning January first of the current fiscal

year into the state general revenue fund.

state treasurer shall deposit such moneys in accordance with

the provisions of this section.]

[If in the immediate previous fiscal

Otherwise, the

5. In addition to funds from the Missouri air emission

reduction fund, costs of capital or operations may be

supplemented, upon appropriation, from the general revenue

fund, the state highway department fund, federal funds or

other funds available for that purpose.

644.021.

1. There is hereby created a water

contaminant control agency to be known as the "Clean Water

Commission of the State of Missouri", whose domicile for the

purposes of sections 644.006 to 644.141 shall be deemed to

be that of the department of natural resources.

commission shall consist of seven members appointed by the

governor with the advice and consent of the senate.

than four of the members shall belong to the same political

party. All members shall be representative of the general

interest of the public and shall have an interest in and

knowledge of conservation and the effects and control of

water contaminants.

knowledgeable concerning the needs of agriculture, industry

or mining and interested in protecting these needs in a

manner consistent with the purposes of sections 644.006 to

644.141. At least one member shall be knowledgeable

concerning the needs of publicly owned wastewater treatment

The
No more

At least two members shall be

works. No more than four members shall represent the

public. [No member shall receive, or have received during

the previous two years, a significant portion of his or her

income directly or indirectly from permit holders or

applicants for a permit pursuant to any federal water

pollution control act as amended and as applicable to this

state.]

that specify when members shall exempt themselves from

participating in discussions and from voting on issues

before the commission due to a potential conflict of

interest as prohibited under section 105.452.

shall exempt him or herself from participating in

discussions and from voting on any issue before the

commission including, but not limited to, permitting and

enforcement actions that directly involve an entity from

which the commissioner receives or has received within the

previous two years a significant portion of his or her

income. All members appointed on or after August 28, 2002,

shall have demonstrated an interest and knowledge about

water quality.

2002, shall be qualified by interest, education, training or

experience to provide, assess and evaluate scientific and

technical information concerning water quality, financial

requirements and the effects of the promulgation of

standards, rules and regulations.

the commission and at yearly intervals thereafter, the

members shall select from among themselves a chairman and a

vice chairman.

The commission shall establish rules of procedure

A member

All members appointed on or after August 28,

At the first meeting of

2. The members' terms of office shall be four years

and until their successors are selected and qualified.

Provided, however, that the first three members appointed

shall serve a term of two years, the next three members

appointed shall serve a term of four years, thereafter all

members appointed shall serve a term of four years.

is no limitation on the number of terms any appointed member

may serve. If a vacancy occurs the governor may appoint a

member for the remaining portion of the unexpired term

created by the vacancy.

appointed member for cause.

shall be reimbursed for travel and other expenses actually

and necessarily incurred in the performance of their duties.

3. The commission shall hold at least four regular

There

The governor may remove any
The members of the commission

meetings each year and such additional meetings as the

chairman deems desirable at a place and time to be fixed by

the chairman.

members of the commission upon delivery of written notice to

each member of the commission.

all meetings shall be given by the director to all members

of the commission.

constitute a quorum.

specifically upon members of the commission shall be

exercised personally by the members and not by alternates or

representatives.

taken at meetings open to the public.

from six consecutive regular commission meetings for any

cause whatsoever shall be deemed to have resigned and the

vacancy shall be filled immediately in accordance with

subsection [1] 2 of this section.

Special meetings may be called by three
Reasonable written notice of

Four members of the commission shall
All powers and duties conferred

All actions of the commission shall be
Any member absent

644.051.

(1) To cause pollution of any waters of the state or

1. It is unlawful for any person:

to place or cause or permit to be placed any water

contaminant in a location where it is reasonably certain to

cause pollution of any waters of the state;

(2) To discharge any water contaminants into any

waters of the state which reduce the quality of such waters

below the water quality standards established by the

commission;

(3) To violate any pretreatment and toxic material

control regulations, or to discharge any water contaminants

into any waters of the state which exceed effluent

regulations or permit provisions as established by the

commission or required by any federal water pollution

control act;

(4) To discharge any radiological, chemical, or

biological warfare agent or high-level radioactive waste

into the waters of the state.

2. It shall be unlawful for any person to operate, use

or maintain any water contaminant or point source in this

state that is subject to standards, rules or regulations

promulgated pursuant to the provisions of sections 644.006

to 644.141 unless such person holds an operating permit from

the commission, subject to such exceptions as the commission

may prescribe by rule or regulation or as exempted in

section 644.059.

required of any person for any emission into publicly owned

treatment facilities or into publicly owned sewer systems

tributary to publicly owned treatment works.

However, no operating permit shall be

3. It shall be unlawful for any person to construct,

build, replace or make major modification to any point

source or collection system that is principally designed to

convey or discharge human sewage to waters of the state,

unless such person obtains a construction permit from the

commission, except as provided in this section.

following activities shall be excluded from construction

permit requirements:

The

(1) Facilities greater than one million gallons per

day that are authorized through a local supervised program,

and are not receiving any department financial assistance;

(2) All sewer extensions or collection projects that

are one thousand feet in length or less with fewer than two

lift stations;

(3) All sewer collection projects that are authorized
through a local supervised program; and
(4) Any other exclusions the commission may promulgate
by rule.
4. A construction permit may be required by the
department in the following circumstances:
(1) Substantial deviation from the commission's design
standards;

(2) To address noncompliance;

(3) When an unauthorized discharge has occurred or has

the potential to occur; or

(4) To correct a violation of water quality standards.

5. Any point source that proposes to construct an

earthen storage structure to hold, convey, contain, store or

treat domestic, agricultural, or industrial process

wastewater also shall be subject to the construction permit

provisions of subsections 3 to 5 of this section.

any earthen basin constructed to retain and settle nontoxic,

nonmetallic earthen materials such as soil, silt, and rock

shall be exempt from the construction permit provisions of

subsections 3 to 5 of this section.

related activities at point sources not subject to

subsections 3 to 5 of this section shall be exempt from the

construction permit requirements.

exempted from the construction permit requirement are

subject to the following conditions:

However,

All other construction-

All activities that are

(1) Any point source system designed to hold, convey,

contain, store or treat domestic, agricultural or industrial

process wastewater shall be designed by a professional

engineer registered in Missouri in accordance with the

commission's design rules;

(2) Such point source system shall be constructed in

accordance with the registered professional engineer's

design and plans; and

(3) Such point source system may receive a post-

construction site inspection by the department prior to

receiving operating permit approval.

be performed by the department, upon receipt of a complete

operating permit application or submission of an engineer's

statement of work complete.

A site inspection may

6. Notwithstanding any provision of this section to

the contrary, the commission may exempt an entity from the

requirement to obtain a permit under this section based on

licensure under the Missouri fertilizer law, sections

266.291 to 266.351, only if the entity is producing products

that are commercially sold to an end user in accordance with

such sections and has accurate labeling for each container

that includes the information required under subsection 1 of

section 266.321.

7. Entities currently storing combined bulk

fertilizers in storage basins shall not be exempt from any

design requirements for agrichemical facilities established

by rule when constructing new agrichemical facilities.

8. (1) In order to receive an operating permit under

this section, any point source or operating location seeking

an operating permit for a commingled offsite industrial

wastewater or wastewater residuals open storage basin or

open storage vessel shall meet current design requirements

for a wastewater treatment facility's design capacity.

(2) Except as provided in subdivision (3) of this

subsection, the department shall require at least, but not

more than, the following buffer distances between the

nearest commingled offsite industrial wastewater or

wastewater residuals open storage basin or open storage

vessel and any public building or occupied residence other

than a public building or occupied residence that is

operated by the commingled offsite industrial wastewater or

wastewater residuals open storage basin or open storage

vessel or a residence from which a written agreement for

operation is obtained:

(a) For a facility with a capacity of more than five

hundred thousand gallons but less than or equal to five

million gallons, one thousand feet;

(b) For a facility with a capacity of more than five

million gallons but less than or equal to ten million

gallons, two thousand feet; and

(c) For a facility with a capacity of more than ten
million gallons, three thousand five hundred feet.

(3) All commingled offsite industrial wastewater or

wastewater residuals open storage basins or open storage

vessels holding valid operating permits as of July 9, 2024,

shall be exempt from the buffer distances prescribed in

subdivision (2) of this subsection.

not apply to a facility that has received a written

agreement signed by all affected property owners within the

relevant buffer distance.

Such distances shall

(4) The department shall require groundwater

monitoring on a site-specific basis when, in the

determination of the division of geological survey, the

commingled offsite industrial wastewater and wastewater

residuals open storage basin or open storage vessel is

located in proximity to a geological feature that increases

the likelihood of groundwater contamination.

(5) (a)

The department shall establish by rule

sampling requirements for commingled offsite industrial

wastewater and wastewater residuals open storage basins or

open storage vessels based on permitted materials.

(b) The department shall, within sixty days of July 9,

2024, begin the process of promulgating rules, which shall

include creating a chain of custody record form to be used

by all parties during the handling of testing samples, and,

at a minimum, establish criteria to require annual sampling

and testing of any contents of any commingled offsite

industrial wastewater or wastewater residuals open storage

basin or open storage vessel for:

a. The total concentrations of metals, including

arsenic, aluminum, barium, cadmium, chromium, copper, lead,

mercury, selenium, silver, and thallium; and

b. E. coli and fecal coliform.

(c) Testing under paragraph (b) of this subdivision

shall be done by a third-party certified laboratory and

results of the testing shall be sent to the department by

the third-party certified laboratory annually.

9. A governmental unit may apply to the department for

authorization to operate a local supervised program, and the

department may authorize such a program.

program would recognize the governmental unit's engineering

capacity and ability to conduct engineering work, supervise

construction and maintain compliance with relevant operating

permit requirements.

A local supervised

10. Before issuing any permit required by this

section, the director shall issue such notices, conduct such

hearings, and consider such factors, comments and

recommendations as required by sections 644.006 to 644.141

or any federal water pollution control act.

shall determine if any state or any provisions of any

federal water pollution control act the state is required to

enforce, any state or federal effluent limitations or

regulations, water quality-related effluent limitations,

national standards of performance, toxic and pretreatment

standards, or water quality standards which apply to the

source, or any such standards in the vicinity of the source,

are being exceeded, and shall determine the impact on such

water quality standards from the source.

order to effectuate the purposes of sections 644.006 to

644.141, shall deny a permit if the source will violate any

such acts, regulations, limitations or standards or will

appreciably affect the water quality standards or the water

quality standards are being substantially exceeded, unless

the permit is issued with such conditions as to make the

source comply with such requirements within an acceptable

time schedule.

The director

The director, in

11. The director shall grant or deny the permit within

sixty days after all requirements of the Federal Water

Pollution Control Act concerning issuance of permits have

been satisfied unless the application does not require any

permit pursuant to any federal water pollution control act.

The director or the commission may require the applicant to

provide and maintain such facilities or to conduct such

tests and monitor effluents as necessary to determine the

nature, extent, quantity or degree of water contaminant

discharged or released from the source, establish and

maintain records and make reports regarding such

determination.

12. The director shall promptly notify the applicant

in writing of his or her action and if the permit is denied

state the reasons for such denial.

621.250 and 640.013, the applicant may appeal to the

administrative hearing commission from the denial of a

permit or from any condition in any permit by filing a

petition with the administrative hearing commission within

thirty days of the notice of denial or issuance of the

permit. After a final action is taken on a new or reissued

general permit, a potential applicant for the general permit

who can demonstrate that he or she is or may be adversely

affected by any permit term or condition may appeal the

terms and conditions of the general permit within thirty

days of the department's issuance of the general permit.

no event shall a permit constitute permission to violate the

law or any standard, rule or regulation promulgated pursuant

thereto. Once the administrative hearing commission has

reviewed the appeal, the administrative hearing commission

shall issue a recommended decision to the commission on

permit issuance, denial, or any condition of the permit.

The commission shall issue its own decision, based on the

appeal, for permit issuance, denial, or any condition of the

permit. If the commission changes a finding of fact or

conclusion of law made by the administrative hearing

commission, or modifies or vacates the decision recommended

by the administrative hearing commission, it shall issue its

own decision, which shall include findings of fact and

conclusions of law.

final decision to the parties to the appeal or their counsel

of record. The commission's decision shall be subject to

As provided by sections

In

The commission shall mail copies of its

judicial review pursuant to chapter 536, except that the

court of appeals district with territorial jurisdiction

coextensive with the county where the point source is to be

located shall have original jurisdiction.

review shall be available until and unless all

administrative remedies are exhausted.

No judicial

13. In any hearing held pursuant to this section that

involves a permit, license, or registration, the burden of

proof is on the party specified in section 640.012.

decision of the commission made pursuant to a hearing held

pursuant to this section is subject to judicial review as

provided in section 644.071.

Any

14. In any event, no permit issued pursuant to this

section shall be issued if properly objected to by the

federal government or any agency authorized to object

pursuant to any federal water pollution control act unless

the application does not require any permit pursuant to any

federal water pollution control act.

15. Permits may be modified, reissued, or terminated

at the request of the permittee.

writing and shall contain facts or reasons supporting the

request.

All requests shall be in

16. No manufacturing or processing plant or operating

location shall be required to pay more than one operating

fee. Operating permits shall be issued for a period not to

exceed five years after date of issuance, except that

general permits shall be issued for a five-year period, and

also except that neither a construction nor an annual permit

shall be required for a single residence's waste treatment

facilities. Applications for renewal of a site-specific

operating permit shall be filed at least one hundred eighty

days prior to the expiration of the existing permit.

Applications seeking to renew coverage under a general

permit shall be submitted at least thirty days prior to the

expiration of the general permit, unless the permittee has

been notified by the director that an earlier application

must be made.

electronically once made available by the director.

General permits may be applied for and issued

17. Every permit issued to municipal or any publicly

owned treatment works or facility shall require the

permittee to provide the clean water commission with

adequate notice of any substantial new introductions of

water contaminants or pollutants into such works or facility

from any source for which such notice is required by

sections 644.006 to 644.141 or any federal water pollution

control act. Such permit shall also require the permittee

to notify the clean water commission of any substantial

change in volume or character of water contaminants or

pollutants being introduced into its treatment works or

facility by a source which was introducing water

contaminants or pollutants into its works at the time of

issuance of the permit.

and quantity of effluent being introduced or to be

introduced into such works or facility by a source which was

introducing water contaminants or pollutants into its works

at the time of issuance of the permit.

the quality and quantity of effluent being introduced or to

be introduced into such works or facility and the

anticipated impact of such introduction on the quality or

quantity of effluent to be released from such works or

facility into waters of the state.

Notice must describe the quality

Notice must describe

18. The director or the commission may require the

filing or posting of a bond as a condition for the issuance

of permits for construction of temporary or future water

treatment facilities or facilities that utilize innovative

technology for wastewater treatment in an amount determined

by the commission to be sufficient to ensure compliance with

all provisions of sections 644.006 to 644.141, and any rules

or regulations of the commission and any condition as to

such construction in the permit.

section, "innovative technology for wastewater treatment"

shall mean a completely new and generally unproven

technology in the type or method of its application that

bench testing or theory suggest has environmental,

efficiency, and cost benefits beyond the standard

technologies.

approved by any federal agency or environmental regulatory

agency of another state.

applicant as principal, and by a corporate surety licensed

to do business in the state of Missouri and approved by the

commission. The bond shall remain in effect until the terms

and conditions of the permit are met and the provisions of

sections 644.006 to 644.141 and rules and regulations

promulgated pursuant thereto are complied with.

19. (1)

For the purposes of this

No bond shall be required for designs
The bond shall be signed by the

The department shall issue or deny

applications for construction and site-specific operating

permits received after January 1, 2001, within one hundred

eighty days of the department's receipt of an application.

For general construction and operating permit applications

received after January 1, 2001, that do not require a public

participation process, the department shall issue or deny

the permits within sixty days of the department's receipt of

an application.

renewed general permit that does not require an individual

public participation process, the director shall issue or

deny the permit within sixty days of the director's receipt

For an application seeking coverage under a

of the application, or upon issuance of the general permit,

whichever is later.

coverage under an initial general permit that does not

require an individual public participation process, the

director shall issue or deny the permit within sixty days of

the department's receipt of the application.

application seeking coverage under a renewed general permit

that requires an individual public participation process,

the director shall issue or deny the permit within ninety

days of the director's receipt of the application, or upon

issuance of the general permit, whichever is later.

regard to an application for an initial general permit that

requires an individual public participation process, the

director shall issue or deny the permit within ninety days

of the director's receipt of the application.

In regard to an application seeking

For an

In

(2) If the department fails to issue or deny with good

cause a construction or operating permit application within

the time frames established in subdivision (1) of this

subsection, the department shall refund the full amount of

the initial application fee within forty-five days of

failure to meet the established time frame.

department fails to refund the application fee within forty-

five days, the refund amount shall accrue interest at a rate

established pursuant to section 32.065.

If the

(3) Permit fee disputes may be appealed to the

commission within thirty days of the date established in

subdivision (2) of this subsection.

prevails in a permit fee dispute appealed to the commission,

the commission may order the director to refund the

applicant's permit fee plus interest and reasonable

attorney's fees as provided in sections 536.085 and

536.087. A refund of the initial application or annual fee

If the applicant

does not waive the applicant's responsibility to pay any

annual fees due each year following issuance of a permit.

(4) No later than December 31, 2001, the commission

shall promulgate regulations defining shorter review time

periods than the time frames established in subdivision (1)

of this subsection, when appropriate, for different classes

of construction and operating permits.

commission regulations adopt permit review times that exceed

the time frames established in subdivision (1) of this

subsection. The department's failure to comply with the

commission's permit review time periods shall result in a

refund of said permit fees as set forth in subdivision (2)

of this subsection.

shall submit to the commission a report which describes the

different classes of permits and reports on the number of

days it took the department to issue each permit from the

date of receipt of the application and show averages for

each different class of permits.

In no case shall

On a semiannual basis, the department

(5) During the department's technical review of the

application, the department may request the applicant submit

supplemental or additional information necessary for

adequate permit review.

letter shall contain a sufficient description of the type of

additional information needed to comply with the application

requirements.

The department's technical review

(6) Nothing in this subsection shall be interpreted to

mean that inaction on a permit application shall be grounds

to violate any provisions of sections 644.006 to 644.141 or

any rules promulgated pursuant to sections 644.006 to

644.141.

20. The department shall respond to all requests for

individual certification under Section 401 of the Federal

Clean Water Act within the lesser of sixty days or the

allowed response period established pursuant to applicable

federal regulations without request for an extension period

unless such extension is determined by the commission to be

necessary to evaluate significant impacts on water quality

standards and the commission establishes a timetable for

completion of such evaluation in a period of no more than

one hundred eighty days.

21. All permit fees generated pursuant to this chapter

shall not be used for the development or expansion of total

maximum daily loads studies on either the Missouri or

Mississippi rivers.

22. The department shall implement permit shield

provisions equivalent to the permit shield provisions

implemented by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency

pursuant to the Clean Water Act, Section 402(k), 33 U.S.C.

Section 1342(k), and its implementing regulations, for

permits issued pursuant to this chapter.

23. Prior to the development of a new general permit

or reissuance of a general permit for aquaculture, land

disturbance requiring a storm water permit, or reissuance of

a general permit under which fifty or more permits were

issued under a general permit during the immediately

preceding five-year period for a designated category of

water contaminant sources, the director shall implement a

public participation process complying with the following

minimum requirements:

(1) For a new general permit or reissuance of a

general permit, a general permit template shall be developed

for which comments shall be sought from permittees and other

interested persons prior to issuance of the general permit;

(2) The director shall publish notice of his intent to

issue a new general permit or reissue a general permit by

posting notice on the department's website at least one

hundred eighty days before the proposed effective date of

the general permit;

(3) The director shall hold a public informational

meeting to provide information on anticipated permit

conditions and requirements and to receive informal comments

from permittees and other interested persons.

shall include notice of the public informational meeting

with the notice of intent to issue a new general permit or

reissue a general permit under subdivision (2) of this

subsection. The notice of the public informational meeting,

including the date, time and location, shall be posted on

the department's website at least thirty days in advance of

the public meeting.

reissuance of a general permit, notice shall also be made by

electronic mail to all permittees holding the current

general permit which is expiring.

permittees shall be made at least twenty days prior to the

public meeting;

The director

If the meeting is being held for

Notice to current

(4) The director shall hold a thirty-day public

comment period to receive comments on the general permit

template with the thirty-day comment period expiring at

least sixty days prior to the effective date of the general

permit. Scanned copies of the comments received during the

public comment period shall be posted on the department's

website within five business days after close of the public

comment period;

(5) A revised draft of a general permit template and

the director's response to comments submitted during the

public comment period shall be posted on the department's

website at least forty-five days prior to issuance of the

general permit.

of the general permit the department shall notify all

persons who submitted comments to the department that these

documents have been posted to the department's website;

At least forty-five days prior to issuance

(6) Upon issuance of a new or renewed general permit,

the general permit shall be posted to the department's

website.

24. Notices required to be made by the department

pursuant to subsection 23 of this section may be made by

electronic mail.

make notice to any permittee or other person who has not

provided a current electronic mail address to the

department. In the event the department chooses to make

material modifications to the general permit before its

expiration, the department shall follow the public

participation process described in subsection 23 of this

section.

644.059.

The department shall not be required to

Agricultural nonpoint sources and

agricultural storm water discharges and return flows from

irrigated agriculture shall be exempt from permitting

requirements set forth in sections 644.006 to 644.141.

Agricultural nonpoint sources and agricultural storm water

discharges and return flows from irrigated agriculture shall

not be considered unlawful under subdivisions (1) and (2) of

subsection 1 of section 644.051 unless such nonpoint sources

and agricultural discharges or return flows have entered

waters of the state and have rendered such waters harmful,

detrimental, or injurious to public health, safety, or

welfare, or to industrial or agricultural uses, or to wild

animals, birds, or fish.

agricultural nonpoint sources and agricultural storm water

For the purposes of this section,

discharges and return flows from irrigated agriculture shall

include storm water and snow melt runoff, drainage, and

infiltration, including water that leaves land as a result

of the application of irrigation water, both surface and

subsurface, from standard farming industry practices.

shall include but not be limited to cultivation and tillage

of soil, and production, growing, raising, and harvesting of

agricultural commodities and livestock.

section shall be construed to effect, limit, or supersede

sections 640.700 to 640.755 or any other law or regulation

of concentrated animal feeding operations.

644.083.

This

Nothing in this

1. Notwithstanding any provision of law to

the contrary, a person who has contracted for the right to

store water in a reservoir owned by the United States Army

Corps of Engineers shall have exclusive rights to any return

flows generated directly or indirectly to that reservoir by

the person.

to regulatory requirements imposed by the state and to the

availability to the person of unused storage capacity within

the reservoir to store such return flows.

2.

The rights under this section shall be subject

For purposes of this section, "return flow" means

water that is discharged directly or indirectly to a

reservoir from a water reclamation facility.

✓
