SECOND REGULAR SESSION
[TRULY AGREED TO AND FINALLY PASSED]
SENATE SUBSTITUTE FOR

SENATE BILL NO. 1553
103RD GENERAL ASSEMBLY
6232S.02T

AN ACT
To repeal section 144.054, RSMo, and to enact in lieu thereof two new sections relating to
incentives for producing certain critical materials and pharmaceuticals.
Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

Section A.

Section 144.054, RSMo, is repealed and two new

sections enacted in lieu thereof, to be known as sections

144.054 and 620.1641, to read as follows:

144.054.

1. As used in this section, the following

terms mean:
(1) "Critical materials", metal or metal complexes

included on the list of critical materials as published by

the United States Department of the Interior that serve an

essential function in key energy, defense, and consumer

product technologies and have a high risk of supply chain

disruption;

(2)

"Critical pharmaceuticals", pharmaceutical active

ingredients, key starting materials, or essential finished

pharmaceuticals identified as critical to national security

or public health and having a high risk of supply chain

disruption as included on the list published by the United

States Food and Drug Administration;

(3) "Nuclear security enterprise", the same meaning as
defined in 50 U.S.C. Section 2501, inclusive of buildings,

EXPLANATION-Matter enclosed in bold-faced brackets [thus] in this bill is not enacted
and is intended to be omitted in the law.

structures, and infrastructure constructed for use as a

defense nuclear facility as defined in 50 U.S.C. Section

2501;

[(2)] (4)

"Processing", any mode of treatment, act, or

series of acts performed upon materials to transform or

reduce them to a different state or thing, including

treatment necessary to maintain or preserve such processing

by the producer at the production facility;

[(3)] (5)

"Producing", includes, but is not limited

to, the production of, including the production and

transmission of, telecommunication services;

[(4)] (6)

"Product", includes, but is not limited to,

telecommunications services, critical materials, and

critical pharmaceuticals;

[(5)] (7)

"Recovered materials", those materials which

have been diverted or removed from the solid waste stream

for sale, use, reuse, or recycling, whether or not they

require subsequent separation and processing.

2. In addition to all other exemptions granted under

this chapter, there is hereby specifically exempted from the

provisions of this chapter and the local sales tax law as

defined in section 32.085 and from the computation of the

tax levied, assessed, or payable under this chapter and the

local sales tax law as defined in section 32.085, electrical

energy and gas, whether natural, artificial, or propane,

water, coal, and energy sources, chemicals, machinery,

equipment, and materials used or consumed in the

manufacturing, processing, compounding, mining, or producing

of any product, or used or consumed in the processing of

recovered materials, or used in research and development

related to manufacturing, processing, compounding, mining,

or producing any product.

The construction and application

of this subsection as expressed by the Missouri supreme

court in DST Systems, Inc. v. Director of Revenue, 43 S.W.3d

(Mo. banc 2001); Southwestern Bell Tel. Co. v. Director

of Revenue, 78 S.W.3d 763 (Mo. banc 2002); and Southwestern

Bell Tel. Co. v. Director of Revenue, 182 S.W.3d 226 (Mo.

banc 2005), is hereby affirmed.

3. In addition to all other exemptions granted under

this chapter, there is hereby specifically exempted from the

provisions of this chapter and the local sales tax law as

defined in section 32.085, and from the computation of the

tax levied, assessed, or payable under this chapter and the

local sales tax law as defined in section 32.085, all

utilities, machinery, and equipment used or consumed

directly in television or radio broadcasting and all sales

and purchases of tangible personal property, utilities,

services, or any other transaction that would otherwise be

subject to the state or local sales or use tax when such

sales are made to or purchases are made by a contractor for

use in fulfillment of any obligation under a defense

contract with the United States government, and all sales

and leases of tangible personal property by any county,

city, incorporated town, or village, provided such sale or

lease is authorized under chapter 100, and such transaction

is certified for sales tax exemption by the department of

economic development, and tangible personal property used

for railroad infrastructure brought into this state for

processing, fabrication, or other modification for use

outside the state in the regular course of business.

4. In addition to all other exemptions granted under

this chapter, there is hereby specifically exempted from the

provisions of this chapter and the local sales tax law as

defined in section 32.085, and from the computation of the

tax levied, assessed, or payable under this chapter and the

local sales tax law as defined in section 32.085, all sales

and purchases of tangible personal property, utilities,

services, or any other transaction that would otherwise be

subject to the state or local sales or use tax when such

sales are made to or purchases are made by a private partner

for use in completing a project under sections 227.600 to

227.669.

5. In addition to all other exemptions granted under

this chapter, there is hereby specifically exempted from the

provisions of this chapter and the local sales tax law as

defined in section 32.085, and from the computation of the

tax levied, assessed, or payable under this chapter and the

local sales tax law as defined in section 32.085, all

materials, manufactured goods, machinery and parts,

electrical energy and gas, whether natural, artificial or

propane, water, coal and other energy sources, chemicals,

soaps, detergents, cleaning and sanitizing agents, and other

ingredients and materials inserted by commercial or

industrial laundries to treat, clean, and sanitize textiles

in facilities which process at least five hundred pounds of

textiles per hour and at least sixty thousand pounds per

week.

6. In addition to all other exemptions granted

pursuant to this chapter, there is hereby exempted from the

provisions of and the computation of the tax levied,

assessed, or payable pursuant to this chapter and the local

sales tax law as defined in section 32.085, all sales and

purchases of tangible personal property, building materials,

equipment, fixtures, manufactured goods, machinery, and

parts for the purposes of constructing all or any portion of

a nuclear security enterprise located in any city with more

than four hundred thousand inhabitants and located in more

than one county.

2034.

620.1641.

1.

This subsection shall expire on August 28,
This section shall be known and may be

cited as the "Missouri Defense and Energy Independence Act".

2.

As used in this section, the following terms mean:

(1)

"Critical materials", metal or metal complexes

included on the list of critical materials as published by

the United States Department of the Interior that serve an

essential function in key energy, defense, and consumer

product technologies and have a high risk of supply chain

disruption;

(2)

"Critical pharmaceuticals", pharmaceutical active

ingredients, key starting materials, or essential finished

pharmaceuticals identified as critical to national security

or public health and having a high risk of supply chain

disruption as included on the list published by the United

States Food and Drug Administration;

(3)

development;

(4)

"Department", the Missouri department of economic
"Missouri development finance board" or "MDFB",

the Missouri development finance board established under

section 100.265;

(5)

"Notice of intent", a form developed by the

department and available online, completed by the qualified

company, and submitted to the department stating the

qualified company's intent to request tax credits under this

section as provided in subsection 5 of this section;

(6)

"Project facility", the building or buildings used

by a qualified company at which critical materials or

critical pharmaceuticals will be produced or processed;

(7)

"Qualified company", a firm, partnership, joint

venture, association, private or public corporation

regardless of whether organized for profit, or headquarters

of such entity registered to do business in Missouri, that

is a nontraditional defense contractor, as such term is

defined in 10 U.S.C. Section 3014, as amended, and that

incurs qualified project costs.

not include any company headquartered in a country

identified by the United States Director of National

Intelligence as a country that poses a risk to the national

security of the United States in at least one of the three

most recent annual threat assessments of the U.S.

intelligence community issued pursuant to Section 108B,

federal National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. Section

3043b);

(8)

"Qualified project costs":

(a)

Costs incurred by a qualified company for the

"Qualified company" shall

construction, expansion, or conversion of facilities and

acquisition of equipment for the production of critical

materials or critical pharmaceuticals, including, but not

limited to:

a.

Site preparation;

b.

Building construction or renovation;

c.

Machinery and equipment acquisition and

installation, including any specialized manufacturing

equipment;

d.

Utility infrastructure; and

e.

Environmental compliance systems;

(b)

"Qualified project costs" shall not include any

costs incurred by a qualified company utilizing a contractor

unless:

a.

Such contractor is selected through an open bidding

process and is headquartered in Missouri and for whom at

least eighty-five percent of the workforce used for any work

performed by the contractor for a qualified company reside

within Missouri; and

b.

Such contractor maintains an existing United States

Department of Labor registered apprenticeship program;
(9)

"State tax liability", any liability incurred by a

taxpayer pursuant to the provisions of chapter 143 or

chapter 148, exclusive of the provisions relating to the

withholding of tax as provided for in sections 143.191 to

143.265 and related provisions;

(10)

"Tax credit", a credit against the tax otherwise

due under chapter 143 or chapter 148, excluding withholding

tax imposed under sections 143.191 to 143.265.

3.

(1) For all tax years beginning on or after

January 1, 2027, the department may award a qualified

company tax credits for qualified project costs incurred by

the qualified company on or after January 1, 2027, provided

that no tax credit shall be authorized for any qualified

company that incurs less than five million dollars in

qualified project costs.

be equal to:

(a)

The amount of the tax credit shall

For qualified companies that incur qualified

project costs of at least five million dollars, but less

that fifteen million dollars, twenty percent of such

qualified project costs; and

(b)

For qualified companies that incur qualified

project costs of at least fifteen million dollars, twenty-

five percent of qualified project costs.

(2)

Tax credits authorized by this section shall not

be refundable, but may be carried forward for ten subsequent

tax years or until the full amount of the tax credit has

been redeemed, whichever occurs first.

(3)

Tax credits authorized by this section may be

transferred, sold, or otherwise assigned by filing a

notarized endorsement thereof with the department that names

the transferee, the amount of tax credit transferred, and

the value received for the credit, as well as any other

information reasonably requested by the department.

qualified company with flow-through tax treatment to its

members, partners, or shareholders, the tax credit shall be

allowed to members, partners, or shareholders in proportion

to their share of ownership on the last day of the qualified

company's tax period.

4.

For a

The cumulative amount of tax credits that may be

authorized pursuant to this section shall not exceed forty

million dollars in any fiscal year.

credits applied for in a fiscal year exceeds forty million

dollars, tax credits shall be allowed based on the order in

which they are claimed.

5.

If the amount of tax

A qualified company seeking tax credits authorized

by this section shall submit a notice of intent to the

department.

tax credits under this section, the department and the

qualified company shall enter into a written agreement,

which shall specify, at a minimum:

(1)

Upon approval of a notice of intent to receive

The types and amounts of critical materials that

will be produced or processed at the project facility, along

with any supporting information from the federal Department

of the Interior, Department of Energy, or Department of

Defense indicating a shortage or threat to supply of such

critical materials;

(2)

The types and amounts of critical pharmaceuticals

that will be produced or processed at the project facility,

along with any supporting information from the federal Food

and Drug Administration, Department of Defense, Department

of Veterans Affairs, or Department of Health and Human

Services indicating a shortage or threat to supply of such

critical pharmaceuticals;

(3)

The estimated amount of capital investment to be

made and the estimated number of new jobs to be created at

the project facility;

(4)

department;

(5)

Clawback provisions, as may be required by the
Financial guarantee provisions as may be required

by the department; and

(6)

Any other provisions the department may require.

6.

(1) There is hereby created in the state treasury

the "Grants for Independence from Foreign Influence Fund",

which shall consist of at least ten million dollars

appropriated by the general assembly and any gifts,

contributions, grants, or bequests received from federal,

private, or other sources.

custodian of the fund.

and 30.180, the state treasurer may approve disbursements.

The fund shall be a dedicated fund and, upon appropriation,

moneys in the fund shall be used solely as provided in

subsection 7 of this section.

(2)

The state treasurer shall be

In accordance with sections 30.170

Notwithstanding the provisions of section 33.080

to the contrary, any moneys remaining in the fund at the end

of the biennium shall not revert to the credit of the

general revenue fund.

(3)

The state treasurer shall invest moneys in the

fund in the same manner as other funds are invested.

Any

interest and moneys earned on such investments shall be

credited to the fund.

7.

(1) The department shall develop and implement

grants for independence from foreign influence as provided

in this subsection.

(2)

The department shall establish procedures for the

solicitation, evaluation, and approval of grant applications

received from a qualified company.

submit a grant application for the award of moneys for

qualified project costs incurred by the qualified company as

provided in this subsection.

(3)

A qualified company may

The department shall evaluate each application and

approve or reject such application.

appropriations, upon approval of an application, the MDFB

shall serve as the third-party administrator of the grant

funds, and shall disburse the grant award from the grants

for independence from foreign influence fund in an amount

not to exceed five hundred thousand dollars per grant

application.

(4)

Subject to

Moneys granted to a qualified company under this

section shall be used solely for qualified project costs

incurred before the completion of the project facility.

8.

The department shall promulgate all necessary rules

and regulations for the administration of this section

including, but not limited to, rules relating to the

verification of a qualified company's qualified project

costs.

defined in section 536.010, that is created under the

authority delegated in this section shall become effective

only if it complies with and is subject to all of the

provisions of chapter 536 and, if applicable, section

536.028.

Any rule or portion of a rule, as that term is

This section and chapter 536 are nonseverable and

if any of the powers vested with the general assembly

pursuant to chapter 536 to review, to delay the effective

date, or to disapprove and annul a rule are subsequently

held unconstitutional, then the grant of rulemaking

authority and any rule proposed or adopted after August 28,

2026, shall be invalid and void.

9.

Pursuant to section 23.253 of the Missouri sunset

(1)

The program authorized pursuant to this section

act:

shall automatically sunset on December 31, 2036, unless

reauthorized by an act of the general assembly;

(2)

This section shall terminate on September first of

the calendar year immediately following the calendar year in

which the program authorized pursuant to this section is

sunset; and

(3)

The provisions of this subsection shall not be

construed to impair or impede the state's fulfillment of any

obligations, including the authorization, issuance, or

redemption of tax credits, incurred pursuant to this section

prior to the date the program authorized pursuant to this

section is sunset.

✓
