MISSISSIPPI LEGISLATURE

REGULAR SESSION 2026

By:

To: County Affairs;
Accountability, Efficiency,
Transparency

Representative Clark

HOUSE BILL NO.

AN ACT TO AMEND SECTIONS 19-25-13 AND 27-1-9, MISSISSIPPI
CODE OF 1972, TO REMOVE THE REQUIREMENT THAT THE COUNTY SHERIFF,
ASSESSOR AND TAX COLLECTOR FILE A CERTAIN MONTHLY REPORT REGARDING
EXPENSES WITH THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS FOR APPROVAL AT THE BOARD'S
MONTHLY MEETING AND TO REMOVE THE PROVISION OF LAW THAT REQUIRES
THE BOARD TO APPROPRIATE A CERTAIN LUMP SUM FOR THE SHERIFF,
ASSESSOR AND TAX COLLECTOR FOR EXPENSES DURING A QUARTERLY
APPROPRIATION BY THE BOARD; AND FOR RELATED PURPOSES.

BE IT ENACTED BY THE LEGISLATURE OF THE STATE OF MISSISSIPPI:

SECTION 1.

amended as follows:

19-25-13.

Section 19-25-13, Mississippi Code of 1972, is

The sheriff shall, at the July meeting of the

board of supervisors, submit a budget of estimated expenses of his

office for the ensuing fiscal year beginning October 1 in such

form as shall be prescribed by the Director of the State

Department of Audit.

and determine the amount to be expended by the sheriff in the

performance of his duties for the fiscal year and may increase or

reduce that amount as it deems necessary and proper.

The board shall examine this proposed budget

The budget shall include amounts for compensating the

deputies and other employees of the sheriff's office, for
H. B. No. 274
PAGE 1 (OM\KP)

*HR43/R397*

~ OFFICIAL ~

G1/2

insurance providing protection for the sheriff and his deputies in

case of disability, death and other similar coverage, for travel

and transportation expenses of the sheriff and deputies, for

feeding prisoners and inmates of the county jail, and for any

other expenses that may be incurred in the performance of the

duties of the office of sheriff.

include amounts for the payment of premiums on bonds and insurance

for the sheriff and his deputies which, in the opinion of the

board of supervisors, are deemed necessary to protect the

interests of the county or the sheriff and his deputies.

amounts may include official bonds and any bonds required of his

deputies by the sheriff; liability insurance; insurance against

false arrest charges; insurance against false imprisonment

charges; theft, fire and other hazards insurance; and

hospitalization insurance as provided for in Sections 25-15-101

and 25-15-103.

sheriff and deputies for the use of privately owned automobiles or

other motor vehicles in the performance of official duties at the

rate provided by law for state officers and employees, or may

authorize the purchase by the sheriff of such motor vehicles and

such equipment as may be needed for operation of the sheriff's

office, the vehicles and equipment to be owned by the county.

counties that have elected to purchase the motor vehicles and the

equipment for the operation of the sheriff's office, if a sheriff

or deputy shall be required in the performance of his official
H. B. No. 274
PAGE 2 (OM\KP)

In addition, the budget shall

The

The board may authorize the reimbursement of the

*HR43/R397*

~ OFFICIAL ~

In

duties, in the event of an emergency, to use his privately owned

automobile or other motor vehicle, the board of supervisors may,

in its discretion, authorize the reimbursement for that use at the

rate per mile provided by law for state officers and employees.

This shall not be construed as giving an officer a choice of

whether to use his own or the county's vehicle, but shall be

construed so as not to penalize an officer who must use his own

vehicle because the county's vehicle was not available.

The board of supervisors, in its discretion, may include in

its annual budget for the sheriff's office an amount not to exceed

One Thousand Dollars ($1,000.00), which may be expended by the

sheriff to provide food, water and beverages for the sheriff, the

sheriff's deputies, state, national and local law enforcement

officers, emergency personnel, county employees and members of the

general public who the sheriff requests to assist him and his

office while in the performance of search and rescue missions,

disasters or other emergency operations.

The board of supervisors may acquire one or more credit cards

that may be used by the sheriff and his deputies to pay expenses

incurred by them when traveling in or out of state in the

performance of their official duties.

county purchase clerk shall maintain complete records of all

credit card numbers and all receipts and other documents relating

to the use of those credit cards.

receipts for the use of the credit cards each month to the
H. B. No. 274
PAGE 3 (OM\KP)

*HR43/R397*

The chancery clerk or

The sheriff shall furnish

~ OFFICIAL ~

chancery clerk or purchase clerk who shall submit a written report

monthly to the board of supervisors, which report shall include an

itemized list of all expenditures and use of the credit cards for

the month, and the expenditures may be allowed for payment by the

county in the same manner as other items on the claims docket.

The issuance of a credit card to a sheriff or his deputy under the

provisions of this section shall not be construed to authorize the

sheriff or deputy sheriff to use the credit card to make any

expenditure that is not otherwise authorized by law.

The board of supervisors is hereby authorized and empowered,

in its discretion, to appropriate and pay a sum not to exceed One

Thousand Dollars ($1,000.00) annually as a clothing allowance to

each plainclothes investigator employed by the sheriff's office of

that county.

the Gulf of Mexico and having a population of more than thirty-one

thousand seven hundred (31,700) but less than thirty-one thousand

eight hundred (31,800) according to the 1990 Federal Census may

appropriate and pay a sum not to exceed One Thousand Dollars

($1,000.00) annually as a clothing allowance to the administrator

of the county jail.

* * *

The board of supervisors of any county bordering on

The budget for the sheriff's office may be revised at any

regular meeting by the board of supervisors.

of the sheriff, the board may at any regular meeting make

supplemental appropriations to the sheriff's office.
H. B. No. 274
PAGE 4 (OM\KP)

*HR43/R397*

Upon recommendation

~ OFFICIAL ~

Any fees previously required to be paid by a sheriff shall be

paid by the board of supervisors by including the estimates

therefor in the sheriff's budget.

services heretofore collected by sheriffs shall be collected by

the sheriff and paid monthly into the general fund of the

concerned county.

sheriffs from the county shall not be paid.

All fees and charges for

However, any fees heretofore collected by those

SECTION 2.

Section 27-1-9, Mississippi Code of 1972, is

amended as follows:

27-1-9.

The following shall be applicable to all counties

and shall pertain to the operation of the assessor and tax

collector's office:

(a)

Each assessor and tax collector shall appoint a

sufficient number of deputies to assist him in carrying out the

duties of his office and fix their compensation, subject to the

budget for the assessor and tax collector's office approved by the

county board of supervisors.

which exceeds the salary of the assessor and tax collector.

deputy assessor shall give bond for the faithful discharge of his

duties as provided in Section 27-1-3.

shall give bond to be payable, conditioned and approved as

provided by law in an amount not less than Fifty Thousand Dollars

($50,000.00) for the faithful discharge of his duties.

(b)

No deputy shall receive a salary
Each

Each deputy tax collector

The assessor and tax collector shall, at the July

meeting of the board of supervisors, submit a budget of estimated
H. B. No. 274
PAGE 5 (OM\KP)

*HR43/R397*

~ OFFICIAL ~

expenses of his office for the ensuing fiscal year beginning

October 1 in such form as shall be prescribed by the Director of

the State Department of Audit.

proposed budget and determine the amount to be expended by the

assessor and tax collector in the performance of his duties for

the fiscal year and may increase or reduce said amount as it deems

necessary and proper.

The board shall examine this

The budget shall include amounts for compensating deputies

and other employees of the assessor and tax collector's office,

for travel and transportation expenses of the assessor and tax

collector and deputies, for theft insurance premiums, for

equipment and supplies of his office, and for such other expenses

as may be incurred in the performance of the duties of his office.

In addition, the budget shall include amounts for the payment of

premiums on bonds and other insurance for the assessor and tax

collector and his deputies which, in the opinion of the board of

supervisors, are deemed necessary to protect the interests of the

county, or the assessor and tax collector and his deputies.

amounts may include official bonds and any bonds required of his

deputies by the assessor and tax collector; fire and other hazards

insurance; and hospitalization insurance as provided for in

Sections 25-15-101 and 25-15-103 * * *.

* * *

( * * *c)

Such

The budget for the assessor and tax

collector's office may be revised at any regular meeting by the
H. B. No. 274
PAGE 6 (OM\KP)

*HR43/R397*

~ OFFICIAL ~

board of supervisors; and upon recommendation of the assessor and

tax collector, the board may at any regular meeting make

supplemental appropriations to his office.

( * * *d)

The budget for the assessor and tax

collector's office may include amounts to cover necessary expenses

to provide equipment and personnel to file, store, retain or

reproduce all records, filings or documents using microfilm,

microfiche, data processing, computers, magnetic tape, optical

discs or any other electronic process which correctly and legibly

stores and reproduces or which forms a medium for storing, copying

or reproducing documents, files and records.

SECTION 3.

and after its passage.

H. B. No. 274
PAGE 7 (OM\KP)

This act shall take effect and be in force from

~ OFFICIAL ~
ST: Budget of county sheriff, assessor and tax
collector; remove certain obsolete reporting
requirements concerning.

*HR43/R397*
