Florida Senate - 2026

SB 504

By Senator Burgess

23-00349A-26

2026504__
A bill to be entitled

An act relating to code inspector body cameras;

creating s. 162.41, F.S.; defining terms; requiring a

governmental entity that permits its code inspectors

to wear body cameras to establish certain policies and

procedures; requiring such governmental entity to

ensure that certain training occurs, to retain certain

data in accordance with public records laws, and to

perform a periodic review of actual body camera

practices; providing that certain provisions relating

to the interception of wire, electronic, and oral

communications do not apply to body camera recordings

made by code inspectors; providing an effective date.

Be It Enacted by the Legislature of the State of Florida:

Section 1.

Section 162.41, Florida Statutes, is created to

read:
162.41 Code inspector body cameras; policies and
procedures.—

(1) As used in this section, the term:

(a) “Body camera” means a portable electronic recording

device worn on a code inspector’s person which records audio and

video data of the code inspector’s encounters and activities.

(b) “Code inspector” has the same meaning as in s.

162.04(2).
(2) A governmental entity that permits its code inspectors

to wear body cameras shall establish policies and procedures

addressing the proper use, maintenance, and storage of body
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

SB 504

23-00349A-26

2026504__

cameras and the data recorded by body cameras. The policies and

procedures must include all of the following:

(a)

General guidelines for the proper use, maintenance, and

storage of body cameras.
(b) Any limitation on which code inspectors are permitted
to wear body cameras.
(c) Any limitation on code enforcement-related encounters

and activities in which code inspectors are permitted to wear

body cameras. A code inspector must be permitted to use a body

camera to record any encounter with a member of the public which

occurs while the inspector is performing his or her duties.

(d) General guidelines for the proper storage, retention,
and release of audio and video data recorded by body cameras.
(3) A governmental entity that permits its code inspectors
to wear body cameras shall do all of the following:
(a) Ensure that all personnel who wear, use, maintain, or

store body cameras are trained in the governmental entity’s body

camera policies and procedures.

(b) Retain audio and video data recorded by body cameras in

accordance with the requirements of s. 119.021, except as

otherwise provided by law.

(c) Perform a periodic review of actual body camera

practices to ensure conformity with the governmental entity’s

body camera policies and procedures.

(4) Chapter 934 does not apply to body camera recordings
made by code inspectors who elect to use body cameras.
Section 2.

This act shall take effect July 1, 2026.

CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.
