House Bill 1020 (AS PASSED HOUSE AND SENATE)
By: Representatives Reeves of the 99th, Efstration of the 104th, Gunter of the 8th, Kelley of
the 16th, Smith of the 18th, and others

A BILL TO BE ENTITLED
AN ACT

To amend Article 1 of Chapter 18 of Title 15 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated,

relating to general provisions regarding prosecuting attorneys, so as to modify provisions

regarding the compensation received by district attorneys; to provide procedures for district

attorneys to opt to receive compensation pursuant to such revised provisions; to provide for

grandfathering of certain district attorneys so as to not reduce the compensation paid to such

district attorneys; to authorize locality pay by counties to district attorneys in lieu of county

salary supplements; to abolish most county salary supplements provided to district attorneys;

to authorize continuation of fringe benefits provided by counties to district attorneys; to

revise the minimum compensation of assistant district attorneys; to preserve existing rights

and obligations related to retirement benefits provided by counties to district attorneys; to

provide for retirement benefits relative to optional locality pay; to amend Code Section

45-7-4 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, relating to annual salaries of certain state

officials and cost-of-living adjustments, so as to revise provisions relating to calculating and

setting the salaries of district attorneys; to revise superseded provisions related to the salary

of the judge of the state-wide tax court; to amend Chapter 3 of Title 1 of the Official Code

of Georgia Annotated, relating to laws and statutes, so as to suspend the operation of local

laws or local ordinances or resolutions that use a district attorney's salary for the calculation

of the salary or compensation of other officers, officials, or employees; to provide for an

automatic lifting of such suspension relative to judges; to preserve the authority of the

General Assembly to amend or repeal such suspended local laws; to preserve the authority

of local governments to use other mechanisms to change salary calculation during such

suspension; to provide for legislative findings and intent; to provide for legislative

construction; to amend Chapter 23 of Title 47 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated,

relating to the Georgia Judicial Retirement System, so as to provide for the payment of

monthly retirement benefits for creditable service as a district attorney at the age of 65 years;

to provide for calculation of benefits for individuals who first become members after the

effective date of this Act; to provide for calculation of survivors benefits; to provide for

conforming changes; to provide a short title; to provide for an effective date; to provide for

related matters; to repeal conflicting laws; and for other purposes.

BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF GEORGIA:

SECTION 1.

This Act shall be known and may be cited as the "District Attorney Compensation Reform

Act."

SECTION 2.

Article 1 of Chapter 18 of Title 15 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, relating to

general provisions regarding prosecuting attorneys, is amended by revising Code Section

15-18-10, relating to compensation of district attorneys and private practice of law

prohibited, as follows:

"15-18-10.

(a) Except as provided for in subsection (b) of this Code section, each Each district

attorney shall receive an annual salary from state funds as prescribed by law. Such salary

shall be paid as provided in Code Sections 15-18-10.1, 15-18-10.2, and 15-18-19,

and 45-7-4.

(b)(1) Each district attorney in office on July 1, 2026, shall have the option to receive the

annual salary provided by Code Section 45-7-4 and any locality pay provided by this

Code section and Code Section 15-18-19 in lieu of his or her compensation which is

otherwise provided by laws in effect on June 30, 2026. The option provided by this

paragraph shall be exercised by such district attorney's filing a written notification thereof

with the Prosecuting Attorneys' Council of Georgia and the governing authority of each

county comprising such district attorney's judicial circuit. A district attorney in office on

July 1, 2026, shall not be required or obligated to exercise the option provided by this

paragraph, but if and when any such district attorney voluntarily and expressly exercises

such option, such district attorney's exercise of such option shall be final and irrevocable.

The failure to exercise the option shall be an election to continue to receive compensation

as previously calculated by law in effect on June 30, 2026, and as outlined in

paragraph (2) of this subsection, and until such option is exercised; provided, however,

that such option must be exercised no later than January 1, 2030. The option exercised

pursuant to this paragraph shall go into effect the next pay period beginning five business

days following the exercise of such option.

(2) To ensure that no district attorney in office on July 1, 2026, has his or her salary,

allowance, or county supplements decreased during his or her term of office, any district

attorney in office on July 1, 2026, who does not exercise the irrevocable option provided

by paragraph (1) of this subsection shall continue to be compensated in precisely the

same manner as he or she was compensated as of June 30, 2026, including, but not

limited to, county supplements, in accordance with Article VI, Section VIII,

Paragraph I (c) of the Constitution.

(3) For the purpose of this Code section and Code Section 15-18-10.2, an interim district

attorney serving on July 1, 2026, shall be treated in the same manner as an elected district

attorney related to any options such district attorneys have as to their compensation.

The county or counties comprising the judicial circuit may supplement the salary of the

district attorney in such amount as is or may be authorized by local Act or in such amount

as may be determined by the governing authority of such county or counties, whichever is

greater.

(c) The clerk of court shall collect any such fees, fines, forfeitures, costs, and emoluments

and remit the same to the county treasury by the fifteenth day of each month.

(d) No district attorney receiving an annual salary under this Code section shall engage in

the private practice of law."

SECTION 3.

Said article is further amended in Code Section 15-18-10.1, relating to annual accountability

supplement and exception, by repealing subsection (d).

SECTION 4.
Said article is further amended by adding a new Code section to read as follows:

"15-18-10.2.

(a) Except as provided for in subsection (b) of this Code section, on or after July 1, 2026,

the county or counties comprising a judicial circuit may provide the district attorney of

such circuit, who either was not in office as a district attorney as of July 1, 2026, or made

an irrevocable election authorized by paragraph (1) of subsection (b) of Code

Section 15-18-10, with locality pay as authorized by this Code section, and such district

attorneys shall not be eligible for county salary supplements provided by local Act. In no

event shall locality pay exceed 10 percent of the state annual salary provided by Code

Section 45-7-4 to such district attorney. All such locality pay shall be in lieu of and not in

addition to any county supplements previously provided by the county or counties.

(b) In no event shall the annual locality pay provided to a district attorney or circuit public

defender by the county or counties comprising a judicial circuit in aggregate exceed the

lesser of:

(1) Ten percent of the state annual salary paid to a district attorney pursuant to Code

Section 45-7-4; or

(2) The total of $20,608.05;

provided, however, that, if the state annual salary paid to district attorneys exceeds

$206,805.00, then the maximum allowable amount of annual locality pay provided to a

district attorney by the county or counties comprising a judicial circuit shall instead be

equal to the difference between $20,608.05 and half the amount by which such state annual

salary exceeds $206,805.00. The intent of this subsection is to provide for a gradual

decrease in the maximum amount of allowable locality pay as the state annual salary

provided by Code Section 45-7-4 to district attorneys exceeds $206,805.00 and continues

to increase.

(c) Except as provided for in subsection (b) of Code Section 15-18-10 and subsection (d)

of this Code section and notwithstanding any other provision of law to the contrary, on and

after July 1, 2026, no county or counties comprising a judicial circuit shall provide county

salary supplements to a district attorney.

(d)(1) Nothing in subsection (c) of this Code section shall operate to prevent a county or

counties comprising a judicial circuit from providing a local salary supplement when the

district attorney of that judicial circuit enters into a contract with said county or counties

to act as the solicitor of a county's probate or magistrate court, or for supplements of

compensation for services under Code Sections 15-18-11 and 19-11-23.

(2) For all district attorneys who elect to exercise the option provided by paragraph (1)

of subsection (b) of Code Section 15-18-10, to the extent the aggregate salary provided

for by subsection (a) of Code Section 15-18-10 and locality pay provided for by

subsection (a) of this Code section to a particular district attorney do not equal or exceed

such district attorney's aggregate salary and local supplement in effect at the time of such

district attorney's exercise of such option, then the county or counties of the circuit shall

pay an additional supplement in the amount equal to the difference between the aggregate

salary and supplement in effect at the time of such district attorney's exercise of such

option and the aggregate salary provided for by subsection (a) of Code Section 15-18-10

and locality pay provided for by subsection (a) of this Code section. When an additional

supplement is required by this paragraph in a circuit consisting of more than one county,

then each county shall pay such additional supplement in proportion to each county's

contribution to the local supplement in effect at the time of such district attorney's

exercise of the option to participate. In no event shall the additional supplement required

by this paragraph result in a district attorney's aggregate salary that exceeds the aggregate

salary existing at the time of a district attorney's exercise of such option.

(e) Nothing in subsection (c) of this Code section shall operate to prevent a county or

counties comprising a judicial circuit from continuing to provide fringe benefits to the

district attorney of such circuit in the same manner that such benefits were provided on

June 30, 2026.

(f) Nothing in this Code section or subsection (b) of Code Section 15-18-10 shall operate

to alter, amend, contract, expand, extend, limit, modify, or terminate retirement benefits

or rights thereto in existence prior to July 1, 2026. All district attorneys who exercise the

option provided by paragraph (1) of subsection (b) of Code Section 15-18-10 shall have no

right to any benefit existing at the time such option is exercised reduced. To the extent

otherwise permitted by law, each county within a judicial circuit is authorized, but not

required, to provide retirement benefits based upon the locality pay it provides pursuant to

subsection (a) of this Code section."

SECTION 5.

Said article is further amended in Code Section 15-18-14, relating to appointment of assistant

district attorneys, qualifications, and compensation, by revising subsection (c) as follows:

"(c) Each attorney appointed pursuant to this Code section shall be compensated based on

a salary schedule established in accordance with subsection (e) of Code Section 15-18-19.

The salary range for each class established in accordance with subsection (b) of this Code

section shall be as follows:

(1) Assistant district attorney I. Not less than $38,124.00 $78,000.00 nor more than 65

percent of the compensation of the district attorney;

(2) Assistant district attorney II. Not less than $40,884.00 $93,082.00 nor more than 70

percent of the compensation of the district attorney;

(3) Assistant district attorney III. Not less than $45,108.00 $111,562.00 nor more than

percent of the compensation of the district attorney; and

(4) Assistant district attorney IV. Not less than $52,176.00 $134,291.00.

SECTION 6.

Code Section 45-7-4 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, relating to annual salaries

of certain state officials, cost-of-living adjustments, and base-salary of certain judges, is

amended by repealing and reserving paragraphs (19.2) and (21) of subsection (a) and by

adding a new paragraph to subsection (d) to read as follows:

"(3) Except as provided for in subsection (b) of Code Section 15-18-10, the annual salary

of each district attorney shall be set by the General Assembly in the General

Appropriations Act, provided that such salary shall not exceed 88 percent of the base

salary provided for in paragraph (1) of this subsection."

SECTION 7.

Chapter 3 of Title 1 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, relating to laws and statutes,

is amended by adding a new Code section to read as follows:

"1-3-13.

(a)(1) Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, except for Code Section

17-12-25, as of July 1, 2026, all local laws and local ordinances or resolutions in effect

as of such date that provide for a salary, supplement, or other compensation to be paid to

a state, county, or local officer, official, or employee based on a percentage of, total

compensation for, or similar mathematical relationship to any district attorney's salary,

supplement, or other compensation shall be suspended as a matter of law with respect to

any increase in the salary, supplement, or other compensation paid to a district attorney

during the term of such suspension; provided, however, that such suspension shall not be

applicable to any local law or local ordinance or resolution adopted after July 1, 2026.

(2) During the period of the suspension provided for in paragraph (1) of this subsection:

(A) No change in the salary of a district attorney shall result in a change in the

calculation of any compensation to be paid to a state, county, or local officer, official,

or employee by any county, municipality, consolidated government, or other political

subdivision; and

(B) The compensation paid to any state, county, or local officer, official, or employee

whose compensation is expressly based on a percentage of, total compensation for, or

similar mathematical relationship to a district attorney's salary, supplement, or other

compensation shall remain at the same amount as provided at the beginning of such

period of suspension, unless and until such suspension terminates with respect to such

individual pursuant to paragraph (1) of subsection (b) of this Code section or the

compensation paid to any such state, county, or local officer, official, or employee is

modified pursuant to subsection (c) of this Code section.

(3) The provisions of this subsection shall not repeal or amend any local law or local

ordinance or resolution, but the provisions of local laws or local ordinances or resolutions

related to calculating compensation based on a district attorney's salary, supplement, or

other compensation shall be merely suspended and shall remain suspended with respect

to any change in such compensation until such suspension is lifted or such compensation

is modified pursuant to subsection (b) or (c) of this Code section with respect to a given

public officer, official, or employee.

(b)(1) As of July 1, 2027, the suspension provided for in subsection (a) of this Code

section shall be terminated with respect to all judges. Any salary or compensation change

for a judge that otherwise would have gone into effect between July 1, 2026, and

June 30, 2027, by operation of a local law or local ordinance or resolution if such

suspension had not been in effect shall become effective for calculations of such judge's

prospective salary or other compensation that may be earned on or after July 1, 2027,

unless the local law or local ordinance or resolution that provides for a salary,

supplement, or other compensation to be paid to such judge is repealed prior to

July 1, 2027, or is amended, prior to July 1, 2027, to expressly modify the terms of such

judge's compensation.

(2) The suspension provided for in subsection (a) of this Code section shall remain in

place for all officers, officials, and employees described in paragraph (1) of subsection (a)

of this Code section other than judges, unless and until the compensation payable to any

such other officer, official, or employee is modified pursuant to subsection (c) of this

Code section.

(3) The termination of a suspension provided for in subsection (a) of this Code section

shall not entitle any person to retroactive compensation that he or she otherwise may have

earned except for such suspension, and no such retroactive payments shall be made.

(c)(1) Nothing in this Code section shall operate to prevent the General Assembly from

at any time repealing or amending, in whole or in part, any local law that is suspended

pursuant to subsection (a) of this Code section, and any such repeal or amendment shall

become effective in the time and manner stated in the law implementing such repeal or

amendment, without regard to the suspension provided for in this Code section.

(2) Nothing in this Code section shall operate to prevent a county, municipality,

consolidated government, or other political subdivision from, at any time, enacting any

salary, supplement, or other compensation changes for any state, county, or local officer,

official, or employee if otherwise authorized by general or local law, and any such change

shall become effective in the time and manner stated in such lawful enactment, without

regard to the suspension provided for in this Code section.

(3) In no event shall any action described in paragraph (1) or (2) of this subsection:

(A) Authorize the payment of or entitle any district attorney to any salary supplement

or any locality pay in excess of the limits set forth in Code Section 15-8-10.2; or

(B) Authorize the payment of or entitle any person to retroactive compensation that he

or she otherwise may have earned except for any period of suspension.

(d) The General Assembly finds that increases to district attorney's compensation that

become effective on or after July 1, 2026, may automatically trigger increases to other

public officers, officials, and employees for whom existing legislation automatically ties

their compensation to that of district attorneys, and that these automatic increases in

compensation would generally result in sudden financial hardship for local governments.

Accordingly, it is the intent of this Code section that:

(1) The salary of any state, county, or local officer, official, or employee whose salary,

supplement, or other compensation is based on a percentage of, total compensation for,

or similar mathematical relationship to a district attorney's salary or supplement shall,

during the period of any such suspension imposed by this Code section, remain the same

as such salary, supplement, or other compensation was at the beginning of such period;

(2) Such state, county, or local officer, official, or employee shall continue to receive

such salary, supplement, or other compensation during the period of such suspension at

the same rate or amount as at the beginning of such period; and

(3) The amount of such salary, supplement, or other compensation shall remain

unchanged until the occurrence of an event described in subsections (a) through (c) of this

Code section, which includes:

(A) Such suspension being terminated pursuant to this Code section;

(B) With respect to a salary, supplement, or other compensation set by local law, the

General Assembly takes some affirmative action to set the salary, supplement, or other

compensation by repealing or amending, in whole or in part, any local law that is

suspended pursuant to subsection (a) of this Code section and such repeal or

amendment becomes effective; or

(C) With respect to a salary, supplement, or other compensation set by local ordinance

or resolution, the county, municipality, consolidated, or other local government takes

some affirmative action to set the salary, supplement, or other compensation and such

action becomes effective.

(e) This Code section shall not affect the compensation paid to any circuit public defender

pursuant to Code Section 17-12-25."

SECTION 8.

Chapter 23 of Title 47 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, relating to the Georgia

Judicial Retirement System, is amended by revising Code Section 47-23-45, relating to effect

of change in employment, as follows:

"47-23-45.

Any member of this retirement system shall be entitled to remain as a member by holding

any position or office covered by the fund and shall receive full credit for all service as a

member despite his or her change from one position or office to another covered by the

fund. Upon becoming eligible for retirement, however, retirement benefits shall be

determined in accordance with Code Sections 47-23-101, 47-23-102, and 47-23-102.1, and

47-23-102.2."

SECTION 9.

Said chapter is further amended by revising Code Section 47-23-102.1, relating to

qualifications to receive retirement benefits, as follows:

"47-23-102.1.

(a) This Code section shall only apply to an individual who first becomes became a

member on or after July 1, 2025, and before July 1, 2026.

(b) The right of a member to receive benefits under this chapter shall vest after the member

obtains ten years of creditable service; provided, however, that no member shall receive

a retirement benefit prior to attaining the age of 60 years. Except as otherwise provided

in Article 2 of Chapter 1 of this title, a member's accumulated contributions shall be 100

percent vested and nonforfeitable at all times. Any member retiring with 16 years or more

of creditable service shall receive a benefit equal to 66.66 percent, plus 1 percent for each

year of creditable service over 16 years, of the member's salary; provided, however, that

no member shall receive more than 24 years of creditable service. Any member retiring

with less than 16 years of creditable service may retire at a reduced benefit pursuant to

Code Section 47-23-103. Except as provided in subsection (c) of this Code section, normal

retirement age under this retirement system shall be the date the member has reached 60

years of age, provided that he or she has at least ten years of creditable service. For

purposes of Section 402(1) of the federal Internal Revenue Code regarding distributions

from governmental plans for health and long-term care insurance for public safety officers,

normal retirement age shall be the earliest date when the member has satisfied the

requirements for a retirement under this retirement system.

(c) On the effective date of a member's retirement, as provided for in subsection (b) of

Code Section 47-23-103, such member's monthly retirement benefit shall be calculated as

follows:

(1) If a member is over the age of 65 years on his or her effective date of retirement, or

has attained the age of 65 years after his or her effective date of retirement, such member

shall receive the full amount of the benefit calculated pursuant to subsection (b) of this

Code section; or

(2) If a member has not yet attained the age of 65 years on his or her effective date of

retirement, the monthly retirement benefit shall be calculated pursuant to subsection (b)

of this Code section using only the years of creditable service attributable to such

member's service in any covered position except for as that of a superior court judge.

(d) The board is authorized to provide by rule or regulation for the payment of benefits to

members or beneficiaries of the retirement system at a time and under circumstances not

provided for in this chapter to the extent that such payment is required to maintain the

retirement system as a qualified retirement plan for the purposes of federal income tax laws

and regulations."

SECTION 10.
Said chapter is further amended by adding a new Code section to read as follows:

"47-23-102.2.

(a) This Code section shall only apply to an individual who first became a member on or

after July 1, 2026.

(b) The right of a member to receive benefits under this chapter shall vest after the member

obtains ten years of creditable service; provided, however, that no member shall receive

a retirement benefit prior to attaining the age of 60 years. Except as otherwise provided

in Article 2 of Chapter 1 of this title, a member's accumulated contributions shall be 100

percent vested and nonforfeitable at all times. Any member retiring with 16 years or more

of creditable service shall receive a benefit equal to 66.66 percent, plus 1 percent for each

year of creditable service over 16 years, of the member's salary; provided, however, that

no member shall receive more than 24 years of creditable service. Any member retiring

with less than 16 years of creditable service may retire at a reduced benefit pursuant to

Code Section 47-23-103. Except as provided in subsection (c) of this Code section, normal

retirement age under this retirement system shall be the date the member has reached 60

years of age, provided that he or she has at least ten years of creditable service. For

purposes of Section 402(1) of the federal Internal Revenue Code regarding distributions

from governmental plans for health and long-term care insurance for public safety officers,

normal retirement age shall be the earliest date when the member has satisfied the

requirements for a retirement under this retirement system.

(c) On the effective date of a member's retirement, as provided for in subsection (b) of

Code Section 47-23-103, such member's monthly retirement benefit shall be calculated as

follows:

(1) If a member is over the age of 65 years on his or her effective date of retirement, or

has attained the age of 65 years after his or her effective date of retirement, such member

shall receive the full amount of the benefit calculated pursuant to subsection (b) of this

Code section; or

(2) If a member has not yet attained the age of 65 years on his or her effective date of

retirement, the monthly retirement benefit shall be calculated pursuant to subsection (b)

of this Code section using only the years of creditable service attributable to such

member's service in any covered position except that of a superior court judge or district

attorney.

(d) The board is authorized to provide by rule or regulation for the payment of benefits to

members or beneficiaries of the retirement system at a time and under circumstances not

provided for in this chapter to the extent that such payment is required to maintain the

retirement system as a qualified retirement plan for the purposes of federal income tax laws

and regulations."

SECTION 11.

Said chapter is further amended by revising Code Section 47-23-103, relating to retirement

based on age and application to retire, as follows:

"47-23-103.

(a) In lieu of retirement at the benefit level provided by Code Section 47-23-102, or

47-23-102.1, or 47-23-102.2, a member may retire at any time after attaining the age of 60

years and after obtaining a minimum of ten years of creditable service. The monthly

retirement benefit for such early retirement shall be a percentage of either the benefit under

Code Section 47-23-102 if such member first became a member before July 1, 2025, or the

benefit under subsection (c) of Code Section 47-23-102.1 if such member first became a

member on or after between July 1, 2025, and June 30, 2026, or the benefit under

subsection (c) of Code Section 47-23-102.2 if such member first became a member on or

after July 1, 2026, and such percentage shall be the proportion which the number of years

of creditable service the member has in the retirement system bears to 16.

(b) The effective date of retirement shall be the first day of the month in which the

application is received by the board of trustees, provided that no retirement shall, in any

case, be effective earlier than the first day of the month following the final month of the

applicant's employment. Applications for retirement shall not be accepted more than 90

days in advance of the effective date of retirement."

SECTION 12.

Said chapter is further amended by revising Code Section 47-23-104, relating to disability,

determination of benefits, and determining disability, as follows:

"47-23-104.

(a) After obtaining a minimum of four years of creditable service, any member who

becomes totally and permanently disabled to the extent that he or she is unable to perform

the duties of his or her office shall be entitled to receive a disability retirement benefit

which shall be one-half of the maximum retirement benefits provided by Code Section

47-23-102, or 47-23-102.1, or 47-23-102.2 for 16 years of service, unless the member

would otherwise qualify for a greater benefit under Code Section 47-23-102 if such

member first became a member before July 1, 2025, Code Section 47-23-102.1 if such

member first became a member on or after between July 1, 2025, and June 30, 2026, or

Code Section 47-23-102.2 if such member first became a member on or after July 1, 2026,

or Code Section 47-23-103, in which event the Code section providing the highest benefit

would apply.

(b) After obtaining a minimum of ten years of actual service, any member who becomes

totally and permanently disabled to the extent that he or she is unable to perform the duties

of his or her office shall be entitled to receive a disability retirement benefit which shall be

two-thirds of the maximum retirement benefits provided by Code Section 47-23-102 , or

47-23-102.1, or 47-23-102.2.

(c) The disability of any member applying for disability retirement benefits shall be

determined by the board in the same manner and under the same procedure as disability of

state employees is determined in accordance with the applicable provisions of the

Employees' Retirement System of Georgia. Disability retirement benefits shall become

effective on the first day of the month following the month the member resigns as a result

of the disability."

SECTION 13.

Said chapter is further amended by revising Code Section 47-23-105.1, relating to

modification of retirement allowance, as follows:

"47-23-105.1.

(a) The provisions of this Code section shall apply only to persons who become members

of this retirement system on or after July 1, 2012.

(b) A member may make a one-time election to convert the retirement allowance

otherwise payable to him or her into a modified retirement allowance of equivalent

actuarial value and designate a natural person to receive a survivors benefit in accordance

with one of the options set forth in paragraphs (1), (2), (3), or (4) of this subsection. Such

retirement allowance shall be actuarially reduced in accordance to the designated survivor's

projected life span. For any member whose benefit amount is calculated pursuant to Code

Section 47-23-102.1 or 47-23-102.2, such actuarial adjustment shall account for any

increase in the benefit amount accruing to such member when he or she attains the age of

years. Such actuarial adjustment shall be computed upon the basis of the mortality

tables and rates of interest last adopted by the board of trustees. Such election may be

made only after the member has become eligible to retire and before the first payment of

his or her retirement allowance normally becomes due. Such election shall be irrevocable

except as otherwise provided in this Code section. The options are:

(1) Option one, known as the 100 percent joint and survivor option, shall consist of a

reduced retirement allowance which is payable during the life of the retired member and

which, upon his or her death, shall be continued at the same rate throughout the life of

and paid to the designated survivor.;

(2) Option two, known as the 66 2/3 percent joint and survivor option, shall consist of

a reduced retirement allowance which is payable during the life of the retired member and

which, upon his or her death, shall be continued at the rate of two-thirds the reduced

retirement allowance throughout the life of and paid to the designated survivor.;

(3) Option three, known as the 50 percent joint and survivor option, shall consist of a

reduced retirement allowance which is payable during the life of the retired member and

which, upon his or her death, shall be continued at the rate of one-half the reduced

retirement allowance throughout the life of and paid to the designated survivor.; and

(4) Option four, known as the pop-up option, shall be the election of options one, two,

or three, with the added provision that in the event the designated survivor predeceases

the retired member, the retirement allowance payable to the retired member after the

death of the designated survivor shall be equal to the maximum retirement allowance

which the retired member would have been entitled to receive under this chapter had such

election not been made.

(c) In the event a member is not married at the time he or she retires and the retired

member does not elect a survivor's option and such member subsequently marries, the

retired member may elect to begin receiving an actuarially reduced benefit of equivalent

value and establish on behalf of the newly acquired spouse an option under this Code

section. Such election shall be made within six months after the marriage.

(d) In the event a retired member makes an election under subsection (b) of this Code

section on behalf of a spouse and such spouse predeceases the retired member and the

retired member subsequently remarries, the retired member may elect to begin receiving

an actuarially reduced benefit of equivalent value and establish on behalf of a new

designated survivor pursuant to an option under this Code section.

(e) In the event a retired member makes an election under subsection (b) of this Code

section on behalf of a spouse and a final judgment of complete divorce from the spouse is

entered, then:

(1) The retired member may elect to continue the optional allowance with the former

spouse designated to receive all amounts and benefits upon the death of the retired

member; or

(2) The retired member may revoke the appointment of such spouse as a beneficiary;

provided, however, that in such event the retirement benefit received by the retired

member shall not increase. Such revocation may be made at any time after the entry of

the final judgment of divorce. If the retired member elects to revoke the election, the

spouse shall be treated in the same manner as if he or she had predeceased the retired

member under subsection (d) of this Code section.

(f) If an active vested member of this retirement system dies and is survived by a legal

spouse, such spouse shall receive a benefit as if the member has had retired on the date of

his or her death, had attained the age of 65, and had elected option three."

SECTION 14.

Said chapter is further amended by revising Code Section 47-23-106, relating to county

supplement of salaries, as follows:

"47-23-106.

(a) Whenever any county within a judicial circuit supplements the state salary paid to

active superior court judges or the district attorney of said circuit, the governing authority

of such county shall be authorized, but not required, to supplement the benefit being paid

pursuant to this chapter to any retired superior court judge or district attorney of said circuit

who is receiving benefits pursuant to this chapter or to supplement the benefit being paid

pursuant to this chapter to any beneficiary of any deceased superior court judge or district

attorney.

(b) Whenever any county which has a state court supplements the salary of the judges or

solicitors-general of such court, the governing authority of such county shall be authorized,

but not required, to supplement the benefit being paid pursuant to this chapter to any retired

state court judge of such court who is receiving benefits pursuant to this chapter or

supplement the benefit being paid pursuant to this chapter to any beneficiary of any

deceased state court judge.

(c) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (a) or (b) of this Code section, for any

single county judicial circuit where the county site is located in an unincorporated area of

the county and the county governing authority has constructed one or more permanent

satellite courthouses within the county, said county shall supplement the benefit amount

being paid pursuant to this chapter to any district attorney who retired from such circuit.

The amount of the supplement shall be determined by multiplying the benefit percentage

he or she earned pursuant to Code Section 47-23-102 if such member first became a

member before July 1, 2025, or Code Section 47-23-102.1 if such member first became a

member on or after between July 1, 2025, and June 30, 2026, or Code Section 47-23-102.2

if such member first became a member on or after July 1, 2026, at retirement together with

the aggregate county salary supplement being paid to the active district attorney on the date

that he or she begins receiving a retirement benefit or the supplement paid to the retiring

district attorney upon his or her last day of service as district attorney, whichever is greater.

The supplement shall not be payable to a spouse or survivor pursuant to the provisions of

Code Section 47-23-105."

SECTION 15.
This Act shall become effective on July 1, 2026.
SECTION 16.
All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this Act are repealed.
