Senate File 2416 - Introduced
SENATE FILE 2416
BY COMMITTEE ON JUDICIARY
(SUCCESSOR TO SSB 3167)

A BILL FOR

An Act relating to interviews conducted with a child subsequent
to a report of child abuse.
BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF THE STATE OF IOWA:

TLSB 6874SV (3) 91
dg/ko

S.F. 2416

Section 1. Section 232.68, subsection 3, paragraph a, Code
2026, is amended to read as follows:
a. “Interview” means the verbal exchange between the child
protection worker or peace officer and the child for the
purpose of developing information necessary to protect the
child and may include an interview of the child authorized by
the child protection worker or peace officer at an accredited
child protection center or child advocacy center established
pursuant to section 135.118. A child protection worker or
peace officer is not precluded from recording visible evidence
of abuse.
Sec. 2. Section 232.71B, subsection 3, paragraph b, Code
2026, is amended to read as follows:
b. If a report is determined not to constitute a child
abuse allegation or if the child abuse report is accepted
but assessed under the family assessment, but a criminal act
harming a child is alleged, the department shall immediately
refer the matter to the appropriate law enforcement agency.
With the consent of the child’s parent or guardian, a peace
officer may visit the home of the child for an interview or
observation. If permission to enter the home, to interview
the child, or to observe the child is refused, the court or a
district court, upon a showing of probable cause, may authorize
the interview or observation of the child.
Sec. 3. Section 232.71B, subsection 6, Code 2026, is amended
to read as follows:
6. Home visit and child interview. The assessment may,
with the consent of the parent or guardian, include a visit to
the home of the child named in the report and. The assessment
may include an interview or observation of the child may be
conducted. If permission to enter the home, to interview
the child, or to observe the child is refused, the juvenile
court or district court upon a showing of probable cause may
authorize the person making the assessment to enter the home
and may authorize the person making the assessment to complete

LSB 6874SV (3) 91
dg/ko

1/2

S.F. 2416

a child interview or observe the child.
EXPLANATION

The inclusion of this explanation does not constitute agreement with
the explanation’s substance by the members of the general assembly.

This bill relates to interviews conducted with a child
subsequent to a report of child abuse.
The bill allows peace officers to conduct an interview with
a child for the purpose of a child abuse investigation, and
allows a child protection worker or peace officer to conduct
an interview at a location including but not limited to an
accredited child protection center or child advocacy center,
and record visible evidence of abuse during an interview.
Under current law, if an allegation of child abuse alleges
a child has been harmed by a criminal act, the department of
health and human services is required to refer the matter to
the appropriate law enforcement agency. The bill allows a
peace officer to visit the home of the child for an interview
or observation if the peace officer obtained consent from the
child’s parent or guardian to interview or observe the child
in the child’s home, or the juvenile court, upon a showing of
probable cause, authorized the peace officer to interview or
observe the child in the child’s home.
The bill makes conforming changes to Code section 232.68
(child abuse reporting, assessment, and rehabilitation ——
definitions).

LSB 6874SV (3) 91
dg/ko

2/2
