Session of 2026

SENATE BILL No. 460
By Committee on Judiciary
2-3

AN ACT concerning drivers' licenses; relating to replacement drivers'
licenses; authorizing municipal court services agencies to issue an
identification certificate to offenders under the agency's probation
supervision; amending K.S.A. 8-246 and repealing the existing section.
Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Kansas:
Section 1. K.S.A. 8-246 is hereby amended to read as follows: 8-246.
(a) If a driver's license issued under the provisions of this act is lost or
destroyed, or if a new name is acquired, the person to whom such driver's
license was issued may obtain a replacement upon:
(1) Furnishing satisfactory proof of the loss, destruction or name
change to the division, including an affidavit stating the circumstances of
the loss, destruction or name change;
(2) payment of a fee of $8; and
(3) furnishing proof of the person's identity as provided in subsection
(b). The driver's license examiner also shall compare the applicant with the
division's existing information and facial image database.
(b) For the purposes of obtaining a replacement driver's license, proof
of a person's identity shall include at least two of the following documents,
one of the documents shall bear the person's signature and one of the
documents shall bear the person's age or one of the documents shall bear
the person's signature and age:
(1) Military identification card;
(2) military dependent identification card;
(3) military discharge papers;
(4) military DD214;
(5) an original or certified copy of a state issued birth certificate;
(6) marriage license;
(7) medicare identification card;
(8) certified copy of court order specifying a change of name of the
person;
(9) commercially produced school yearbook with photograph of the
person, and the book is less than five years old;
(10) an official passport issued by any country;
(11) alien registration documents issued by the United States;
(12) expired or current driver's license or identification card issued by

SB 460

the Kansas division of vehicles or an expired or current driver's license or
identification card of another state issued by similar authority, and for any
document in this paragraph the document must bear a photograph of the
person;
(13) student identification card bearing the photograph of the person;
(14) employee identification card bearing the photograph of the
person;
(15) a copy of any federal or state income tax return bearing the
signature of the person;
(16) an identification certificate issued by the department of
corrections to an offender under the supervision of the secretary of
corrections; or
(17) an identification certificate issued by a court services, or
community corrections or municipal court services agency to an offender
under the probation supervision of such agency.
(c) The division may waive the furnishing of one of the documents
required by subsection (b) in the case of:
(1) A person who is 65 or more years of age; or
(2) an inmate who has been released on parole, conditional release or
expiration of the inmate's maximum sentence. When additional
clarification is needed to adequately describe any of the above items, the
division shall specify such clarification in making the requirement for such
item.
(d) In lieu of providing one of the documents required by subsection
(b), a person may recite to the satisfaction of the driver's license examiner
the recent motor vehicle operating record of the person.
(e) Any person who loses a driver's license and who, after obtaining a
replacement, finds the original license shall immediately surrender the
original license to the division.
Sec. 2. K.S.A. 8-246 is hereby repealed.
Sec. 3. This act shall take effect and be in force from and after its
publication in the statute book.
