SECOND REGULAR SESSION
[TRULY AGREED TO AND FINALLY PASSED]
HOUSE COMMITTEE SUBSTITUTE FOR

SENATE BILL NO. 1572
103RD GENERAL ASSEMBLY
6641H.02T

AN ACT
To repeal sections 84.570, 86.213, 104.200, 104.490, 104.1060, 104.1091, 104.1092, and 169.450,
RSMo, and to enact in lieu thereof nine new sections relating to public employee
retirement systems.
Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

Section A.

Sections 84.570, 86.213, 104.200, 104.490,

104.1060, 104.1091, 104.1092, and 169.450, RSMo, are repealed

and nine new sections enacted in lieu thereof, to be known as

sections 84.570, 86.213, 104.200, 104.490, 104.1060, 104.1091,

104.1092, 105.695, and 169.450, to read as follows:

84.570. 1.

No person shall be appointed policeman or

officer of police who shall have been convicted of any

offense, the punishment of which may be confinement in the

state penitentiary; nor shall any person be appointed who is

not proven to be of good character, or who is not proven to

be a bona fide citizen of the United States, or who cannot

read and write the English language and who does not possess

ordinary physical strength and courage, nor shall any person

be originally appointed to said police force who is less

than twenty-one years of age.

provision of law, the board shall have the sole authority to

determine conditions of employment for police officers

pursuant to section 84.460.

Notwithstanding any other

EXPLANATION-Matter enclosed in bold-faced brackets [thus] in this bill is not enacted
and is intended to be omitted in the law.

2. In the interest of efficiency and public safety,

law enforcement officers, as such term is defined in 29

U.S.C. Section 630 or any successor statute, shall be

separated from service on the last day of the month in which

the employee becomes sixty-five years of age or reaches

thirty-five years of creditable service, as such term is

defined in subdivision (8) of section 86.900, whichever

occurs [later] first.

3. The board shall from time to time require open

competitive examinations or tests for determining the

qualifications and fitness of all applicants for appointment

to positions on the police force.

tests shall be practical and shall relate to matters which

fairly measure the relative fitness of the candidates to

discharge the duties of the positions to which they seek to

be appointed.

be given not less than ten days in advance thereof by public

advertisement in at least one newspaper of general

circulation in such city, and by posting notice in the

police headquarters building.

such examinations shall be established, listing those

qualified in order of rank.

made, the appointment shall be made from such eligible list.

Such examinations and

Notice of such examinations and tests shall

A list of those qualifying in

When an appointment is to be

4. The board shall also establish rules for:

(1) Temporary employment for not exceeding sixty days

in the absence of any eligible list;
(2) Hours of work of police employees and officers
subject to the provisions of section 84.510; and

(3) Attendance regulations and leaves of absence.

86.213. 1.

The general administration and the

responsibility for the proper operation of the retirement

system and for making effective the provisions of sections

86.200 to 86.366 are hereby vested in a board of trustees of

nine persons.

The board shall be constituted as follows:

(1) The comptroller of the city, ex officio.

comptroller is absent from any meeting of the board of

trustees for any cause whatsoever, the comptroller may be

represented by either the deputy comptroller or the first

assistant comptroller who in such case shall have full power

to act as a member of the said board of trustees;

If the

(2) Two members to be appointed by the mayor of the

city, provided that, effective October 1, 2026, the mayor

shall appoint one member to serve a term of one year and one

member to serve a term of two years and thereafter, each

appointee to serve for a term of two years, except the mayor

shall not appoint the police chief of the municipal police

force or the city's director of public safety;

(3) Three members who are actively commissioned

officers of the municipal police force of any city not

within a county to be elected by [the] those members of the

retirement system who are actively commissioned officers of

the municipal police force of [the] any city not within a

county for a term of three years; provided, however, that

the term of office of the first three members so elected

shall begin immediately upon their election and one such

member's term shall expire one year from the date the

retirement system becomes operative, another such member's

term shall expire two years from the date the retirement

system becomes operative and the other such member's term

shall expire three years from the date the retirement system

becomes operative; provided, further, that such members

shall be members of the system and hold office only while

members of the system;

(4) Three members who shall be retired members of the

retirement system to be elected by [the] those retired

members of the retirement system for a term of three years;

except that, the term of office of the first two members so

elected shall begin immediately upon their election and one

such member's term shall expire two years from the date of

election and the other such member's term shall expire three

years from the date of election.

2. Any member elected chairman of the board of
trustees may serve without term limitations.
3. Each actively commissioned elected trustee shall be

granted travel time by the St. Louis metropolitan police

department to attend any and all functions that have been

authorized by the board of trustees of the police retirement

system of St. Louis.

trustee shall not exceed thirty days in any board fiscal

year.

4.

Travel time, with compensation, for a

Members appointed by the mayor of the city pursuant

to subdivision (2) of subsection 1 of this section shall

continue to serve until their successors have been appointed.

104.200.

Should any error in any records result in any

member or beneficiary receiving more or less than he or she

would have been entitled to receive had the records been

correct, the board shall correct such error, and, as far as

practicable, to recover any overpayments, may accept single

sum or installment repayments or make future payments in

such a manner that the actuarial equivalent of the benefit

to which such member or beneficiary was entitled shall be

paid[, and to this end may recover any overpayments].

all cases in which such error has been made, no such error

shall be corrected unless the system discovers or is

notified of such error within ten years after the member's

In

annuity starting date or the date of error, whichever occurs

later. In cases of fraud, any error discovered shall be

corrected without concern for the amount of time that has

passed.

104.490.

1. Should any error result in any member or

beneficiary receiving more or less than he or she would have

been entitled to receive had the error not occurred, the

board shall correct such error, and, as far as practicable,

to recover any overpayments, may accept single sum or

installment repayments or make future payments in such a

manner that the actuarial equivalent of the benefit to which

such member or beneficiary was entitled shall be paid[, and

to this end may recover any overpayments].

which such error has been made, no such error shall be

corrected unless the system discovers or is notified of such

error within ten years after the member's annuity starting

date or the date of error, whichever occurs later.

of fraud, any error discovered shall be corrected without

concern to the amount of time that has passed.

In all cases in

In cases

2. A person who knowingly makes a false statement, or

falsifies or permits to be falsified a record of the system,

in an attempt to defraud the system is subject to fine or

imprisonment pursuant to the Missouri revised statutes.

3. The board of trustees of the Missouri state

employees' retirement system shall cease paying benefits to

any survivor or beneficiary who is charged with the

intentional killing of a member without legal excuse or

justification.

of such charge shall no longer be entitled to receive

benefits. If the survivor or beneficiary is not convicted

of such charge, the board shall resume payment of benefits

A survivor or beneficiary who is convicted

and shall pay the survivor or beneficiary any benefits that

were suspended pending resolution of such charge.

104.1060.

1. Should any error result in any person

receiving more or less than the person would have been

entitled to receive had the error not occurred, the board

shall correct such error, and, as far as practicable, to

recover any overpayments, may accept single sum or

installment repayments or make future payments in such a

manner that the actuarial equivalent of the annuity to which

such person was entitled shall be paid[, and to this end may

recover any overpayments].

has been made, no such error shall be corrected unless the

system discovers or is notified of such error within ten

years after the member's annuity starting date or the date

of error, whichever occurs later.

error discovered shall be corrected without concern to the

amount of time that has passed.

In all cases in which such error

In cases of fraud, any

2. A person who knowingly makes a false statement, or

falsifies or permits to be falsified a record of the system,

in an attempt to defraud the system shall be subject to fine

or imprisonment under the Missouri revised statutes.

3. A board shall not pay an annuity to any survivor or

beneficiary who is charged with the intentional killing of a

member, retiree or survivor without legal excuse or

justification.

of such charge shall no longer be entitled to receive an

annuity. If the survivor or beneficiary is not convicted of

such charge, the board shall resume annuity payments and

shall pay the survivor or beneficiary any annuity payments

that were suspended pending resolution of such charge.

104.1091.

A survivor or beneficiary who is convicted

1. Notwithstanding any provision of the

year 2000 plan to the contrary, each person who first

becomes an employee on or after January 1, 2011, shall be a

member of the year 2000 plan subject to the provisions of

this section.

2. A member's normal retirement eligibility shall be
as follows:
(1) The member's attainment of at least age sixty-

seven and the completion of at least ten years of credited

service; or the member's attainment of at least age fifty-

five with the sum of the member's age and credited service

equaling at least ninety; or, in the case of a member who is

serving as a uniformed member of the highway patrol and

subject to the mandatory retirement provisions of section

104.081, such member's attainment of at least age sixty or

the attainment of at least age fifty-five with ten years of

credited service;

(2) For members of the general assembly, the member's

attainment of at least age sixty-two and the completion of

at least three full biennial assemblies; or the member's

attainment of at least age fifty-five with the sum of the

member's age and credited service equaling at least ninety;

(3) For statewide elected officials, the official's

attainment of at least age sixty-two and the completion of

at least four years of credited service; or the official's

attainment of at least age fifty-five with the sum of the

official's age and credited service equaling at least ninety.

3. A vested former member's normal retirement

eligibility shall be based on the attainment of at least age

sixty-seven and the completion of at least ten years of

credited service.

4. A temporary annuity paid pursuant to subsection 4

of section 104.1024 shall be payable if the member has

attained at least age fifty-five with the sum of the

member's age and credited service equaling at least ninety;

or in the case of a member who is serving as a uniformed

member of the highway patrol and subject to the mandatory

retirement provisions of section 104.081, the temporary

annuity shall be payable if the member has attained at least

age sixty, or at least age fifty-five with ten years of

credited service.

5. A member, other than a member who is serving as a

uniformed member of the highway patrol and subject to the

mandatory retirement provisions of section 104.081, shall be

eligible for an early retirement annuity upon the attainment

of at least age sixty-two and the completion of at least ten

years of credited service.

terminated employment prior to the attainment of early

retirement eligibility shall not be eligible for early

retirement.

A vested former member who

6. The provisions of subsection 6 of section 104.1021

and section 104.344 as applied pursuant to subsection 7 of

section 104.1021 and section 104.1090 shall not apply to

members covered by this section.

7. The minimum credited service requirements of five

years contained in sections 104.1018, 104.1030, 104.1036,

and 104.1051 shall be ten years for members covered by this

section. The normal and early retirement eligibility

requirements in this section shall apply for purposes of

administering section 104.1087.

8. A member shall be required to contribute four

percent of the member's pay to the retirement system, which

shall stand to the member's credit in his or her individual

account with the system, together with investment credits

thereon, for purposes of funding retirement benefits payable

under the year 2000 plan, subject to the following

provisions:

(1) The state of Missouri employer, pursuant to the

provisions of 26 U.S.C. Section 414(h)(2), shall pick up and

pay the contributions that would otherwise be payable by the

member under this section.

shall be treated as employer contributions for purposes of

determining the member's pay that is includable in the

member's gross income for federal income tax purposes;

The contributions so picked up

(2) Member contributions picked up by the employer

shall be paid from the same source of funds used for the

payment of pay to a member.

each member's pay equal to the amount of the member's

contributions picked up by the employer.

however, shall not reduce the member's pay for purposes of

computing benefits under the retirement system pursuant to

this chapter;

A deduction shall be made from
This deduction,

(3) Member contributions so picked up shall be

credited to a separate account within the member's

individual account so that the amounts contributed pursuant

to this section may be distinguished from the amounts

contributed on an after-tax basis;

(4) The contributions, although designated as employee

contributions, shall be paid by the employer in lieu of the

contributions by the member.

option of choosing to receive the contributed amounts

directly instead of having them paid by the employer to the

retirement system;

The member shall not have the

(5) Interest shall be credited annually on June

thirtieth based on the value in the account as of July first

of the immediately preceding year at a rate of four

percent. Effective June 30, 2014, and each June thirtieth

thereafter, the interest crediting rate shall be equal to

the investment rate that is published by the United States

Department of the Treasury, or its successor agency, for

fifty-two week treasury bills for the relevant auction that

is nearest to the preceding July first, or a successor

treasury bill investment rate as approved by the board if

the fifty-two week treasury bill is no longer issued.

Interest credits shall cease upon termination of employment

if the member is not a vested former member.

interest credits shall cease upon retirement or death;

(6) (a)

Otherwise,

A vested former member or a former member who

is not vested may request a refund of his or her

contributions and interest credited thereon.

is married at the time of such request, such request shall

not be processed without consent from the spouse. Such

member is not eligible to request a refund if such member's

retirement benefit is subject to a division of benefit order

pursuant to section 104.1051.

(b)

If such member

[Such refund]

For a former member who is not vested, the system

shall refund the former member's contributions and interest

credited thereon if the total amount thereof is one thousand

dollars or less, or such other amount as may be permitted

under applicable federal law.

a.

The system and the treasurer are authorized to

share information consistent with section 447.560 for

purposes of the system's refunding such former member's

contributions and credited interest directly to the former

member or the former member's survivor or beneficiary.

b.

The availability of the shared information for the

public inspection shall be consistent with section 447.560.
c.

The system's procedures in effect from time to time

to locate such former member, survivor, or beneficiary shall

be considered reasonable and necessary diligence consistent

with good business practice and in compliance with federal

law.

(c)

Contribution refunds shall be paid by the system

within an administratively reasonable period, but no sooner

than ninety days from the date of termination of

employment. The amount refunded shall include all employee

contributions made to any retirement plan administered by

the system and interest credited thereon.

(d) A vested former member may not request a refund

after such member becomes eligible for normal retirement.

(e) A vested former member or a former member who is

not vested who receives a refund shall forfeit all the

member's credited service and future rights to receive

benefits from the system and shall not be eligible to

receive any disability benefits; provided that any member or

vested former member receiving disability benefits shall not

be eligible for a refund.

becomes an employee and works continuously for at least one

year, the credited service previously forfeited shall be

restored if the member returns to the system the amount

previously refunded plus interest at a rate established by

the board;

If such member subsequently

(7) The beneficiary of any member who made

contributions shall receive a refund upon the member's death

equal to the amount, if any, of such contributions and

interest credited thereon less any retirement benefits

received by the member unless an annuity is payable to a

survivor or beneficiary as a result of the member's death.

In that event, the beneficiary of the survivor or

beneficiary who received the annuity shall receive a refund

upon the survivor's or beneficiary's death equal to the

amount, if any, of the member's contributions less any

annuity amounts received by the member and the survivor or

beneficiary.

9. The employee contribution rate, the benefits

provided under the year 2000 plan to members covered under

this section, and any other provision of the year 2000 plan

with regard to members covered under this section may be

altered, amended, increased, decreased, or repealed, but

only with respect to services rendered by the member after

the effective date of such alteration, amendment, increase,

decrease, or repeal, or, with respect to interest credits,

for periods of time after the effective date of such

alteration, amendment, increase, decrease, or repeal.

10. For purposes of members covered by this section,
the options under section 104.1027 shall be as follows:

Option 1.

A retiree's life annuity shall be reduced to a

certain percent of the annuity otherwise

payable.

one half percent adjusted as follows:

retiree's age on the annuity starting date is

younger than sixty-seven years, an increase of

three-tenths of one percent for each year the

retiree's age is younger than age sixty-seven

years; and if the beneficiary's age is younger

than the retiree's age on the annuity starting

date, a decrease of three-tenths of one percent

for each year of age difference; and if the

retiree's age is younger than the beneficiary's

age on the annuity starting date, an increase of

three-tenths of one percent for each year of age

difference; provided, after all adjustments the

Such percent shall be eighty-eight and
if the

option 1 percent cannot exceed ninety-four and

one quarter percent.

fifty percent of the retiree's reduced annuity

shall be paid to such beneficiary who was the

retiree's spouse on the annuity starting date or

as otherwise provided by subsection 5 of this

section.

Upon the retiree's death,

Option 2.

A retiree's life annuity shall be reduced to a

certain percent of the annuity otherwise

payable.

percent adjusted as follows:

age on the annuity starting date is younger than

sixty-seven years, an increase of four-tenths of

one percent for each year the retiree's age is

younger than sixty-seven years; and if the

beneficiary's age is younger than the retiree's

age on the annuity starting date, a decrease of

five-tenths of one percent for each year of age

difference; and if the retiree's age is younger

than the beneficiary's age on the annuity

starting date, an increase of five-tenths of one

percent for each year of age difference;

provided, after all adjustments the option 2

percent cannot exceed eighty-seven and three

quarter percent.

hundred percent of the retiree's reduced annuity

shall be paid to such beneficiary who was the

retiree's spouse on the annuity starting date or

as otherwise provided by subsection 5 of this

section.

Such percent shall be eighty-one
if the retiree's

Upon the retiree's death one

Option 3.

A retiree's life annuity shall be reduced to

ninety-three percent of the annuity otherwise

payable.

received one hundred twenty monthly payments,

the reduced annuity shall be continued for the

remainder of the one hundred twenty-month period

to the retiree's designated beneficiary provided

that if there is no beneficiary surviving the

retiree, the present value of the remaining

annuity payments shall be paid as provided under

subsection 3 of section 104.620.

beneficiary survives the retiree but dies before

receiving the remainder of such one hundred

twenty monthly payments, the present value of

the remaining annuity payments shall be paid as

provided under subsection 3 of section 104.620.

If the retiree dies before having

If the

Option 4.

A retiree's life annuity shall be reduced to

eighty-six percent of the annuity otherwise

payable.

received one hundred eighty monthly payments,

the reduced annuity shall be continued for the

remainder of the one hundred eighty-month period

to the retiree's designated beneficiary provided

that if there is no beneficiary surviving the

retiree, the present value of the remaining

annuity payments shall be paid as provided under

subsection 3 of section 104.620.

beneficiary survives the retiree but dies before

receiving the remainder of such one hundred

eighty monthly payments, the present value of

If the retiree dies before having

If the

the remaining annuity payments shall be paid as

provided under subsection 3 of section 104.620.

11. The provisions of subsection 6 of section 104.1024

shall not apply to members covered by this section.
12. Effective January 1, 2018, a member who is not a

statewide elected official or a member of the general

assembly shall be eligible for retirement under this

subsection subject to the following conditions:

(1) A member's normal retirement eligibility shall be

based on the attainment of at least age sixty-seven and the

completion of at least five years of credited service; or

the member's attainment of at least age fifty-five with the

sum of the member's age and credited service equaling at

least ninety; or in the case of a member who is serving as a

uniformed member of the highway patrol and subject to the

mandatory retirement provisions of section 104.081, such

member's attainment of at least age sixty or the attainment

of at least age fifty-five with five years of credited

service;

(2) A vested former member's normal retirement

eligibility shall be based on the attainment of at least age

sixty-seven and the completion of at least five years of

credited service; except that, a vested former member who

terminates employment after the attainment of normal

retirement eligibility as described in subdivision (1) of

this subsection shall be covered under such subdivision;

(3) A temporary annuity paid under subsection 4 of

section 104.1024 shall be payable if the member has attained

at least age fifty-five with the sum of the member's age and

credited service equaling at least ninety; or in the case of

a member who is serving as a uniformed member of the highway

patrol and subject to the mandatory retirement provisions of

section 104.081, the temporary annuity shall be payable if

the member has attained at least age sixty, or at least age

fifty-five with five years of credited service;

(4) A member, other than a member who is serving as a

uniformed member of the highway patrol and subject to the

mandatory retirement provisions of section 104.081, shall be

eligible for an early retirement annuity upon the attainment

of at least age sixty-two and the completion of at least

five years of credited service.

terminated employment prior to the attainment of early

retirement eligibility shall not be eligible for early

retirement;

A vested former member who

(5) The normal and early retirement eligibility

requirements in this subsection shall apply for purposes of

administering section 104.1087;

(6) The survivor annuity payable under section

104.1030 for vested former members who terminated employment

prior to the attainment of early retirement eligibility and

who are covered by this section shall not be payable until

the deceased member would have reached his or her normal

retirement eligibility under this subsection;

(7) The annual cost-of-living adjustment payable under

section 104.1045 shall not commence until the second

anniversary of the annuity starting date for vested former

members who terminated employment prior to the attainment of

early retirement eligibility and who are covered by this

subsection;

(8) The unused sick leave credit granted under

subsection 2 of section 104.1021 shall not apply to members

covered by this subsection unless the member terminates

employment after reaching normal retirement eligibility or

becoming eligible for an early retirement annuity under this

subsection; and

(9) The minimum credited service requirements of five

years contained in sections 104.1018, 104.1030, 104.1036,

and 104.1051 shall be five years for members covered by this

subsection.

104.1092.

1. In lieu of retirement annuity benefits

otherwise payable under the closed plan or year 2000 plan,

any member who has terminated employment, is entitled to a

deferred annuity, and has not yet reached normal retirement

age or eligibility may make a one-time election to receive a

lump sum payment equal to a percentage of the present value

of such member's deferred annuity should a board choose to

establish such a program by board rule pursuant to section

104.1063.

2. Any such election under subsection 1 of this

section may be made by the member beginning on [a date as

established by the board under such program but not] or

after [May 31, 2018.

shall be made and retirement annuity benefits shall only be

paid as otherwise provided by law under this chapter]

January 1, 2027.

After May 31, 2018, no such election

3. Any such member making such election under

subsection 1 of this section shall forfeit all such member's

creditable or credited service and future rights to receive

retirement annuity benefits from the system under this

chapter and shall not be eligible to receive any long-term

disability benefits.

employee, such member shall be considered a new employee

with no prior credited service and shall be subject to the

provisions of section 104.1091.

If such member subsequently becomes an

105.695.

1. No contribution or expenditure of system

funds shall be made directly by any public pension system to

advocate, support, or oppose the passage or defeat of any

ballot measure or the nomination or election of any

candidate for public office.

any debts or obligations of any committee supporting or

opposing such ballot measures or candidates.

2.

Nor shall any system funds pay

Nothing in this section shall prohibit retirement

systems and their employees from educating and informing

members and the public about potential impacts to the system

through regular system programs, processes, and job duties.

3.

For the purposes of this section, the term "system"

shall be defined as any retirement system established by the

state of Missouri or any political subdivision or

instrumentality of the state for the purpose of providing

plan benefits for elected or appointed public officials or

employees of the state of Missouri or any political

subdivision or instrumentality of the state.

169.450.

1. The general administration and

responsibility for the proper operation of the retirement

system and for making effective the provisions of sections

169.410 to 169.540 are hereby vested in a board of trustees

of thirteen persons, as follows:

(1) Four trustees to be appointed for terms of four

years by the board of education; provided, however, that

their terms shall be fixed so the terms of one of the

trustees so appointed shall expire each year. The members

of such board of trustees appointed by the board of

education may be members of the board of education or other

individuals deemed qualified to hold such positions by the

board of education;

(2) Four trustees to be elected for terms of four

years by and from the active members of the retirement

system who shall hold office as trustees only while active

members; provided, however, that their terms shall be fixed

so that the terms of one of the trustees so elected shall

expire each year; and provided further, that not more than

two of such persons shall be teachers and two shall be

nonteachers. For the purposes of this subsection, a school

administrator shall not be eligible for the positions

established pursuant to this subdivision and shall be

eligible for the position established pursuant to

subdivision (4) of this subsection;

(3) Two trustees, who shall be retired members, to be

elected for terms of four years by and from the retired

members of the retirement system; provided, however, that

the terms of office of the first two trustees so elected

shall begin immediately upon their election and shall expire

two and four years from the date of their election,

respectively; and provided further, that not more than one

of such persons shall be a teacher and one shall be a

nonteacher;

(4) One member, who shall be a school administrator,

to be elected for a term of four years by and from the

active members of the retirement system who shall hold

office as a trustee only while an active member; except

that, the initial term of office of such trustee shall

expire on December 31, 1999;

(5) Two trustees to be appointed for terms of four

years by the Missouri Charter Public School Association;

provided, however, that the terms of office of the first two

trustees so elected shall begin immediately upon their

election and shall expire two and four years from the date

of their election, respectively.

of trustees appointed by the Missouri Charter Public School

Association shall have experience or qualifications relevant

to public charter schools and the retirement system, and at

least one such member shall be a teacher.

of the trustees shall be subject to the same rules and

regulations applicable to other trustees, including, but not

limited to, taking an oath of office as provided in

subsection 5 of this section.

The members of such board

The appointment

2. If a vacancy occurs in the office of trustee, the

vacancy shall be filled for the unexpired term in the same

manner as the office was previously filled.

vacancies on the board of trustees shall impair the power of

the remaining trustees to administer the retirement system

pending the filling of such vacancies.

No vacancy or

3. In the event of a lapse of a school district's

corporate organization as described in subsections 1 and 4

of section 162.081, or for any other reason, the general

administration and the responsibility for the proper

operation of the retirement system shall continue to be

fully vested in the trustees then currently serving and such

trustees shall continue to serve and be elected in the same

manner as set forth in this statute as if no lapse had

occurred, except that in the event of vacancies occurring in

the office of trustees appointed by the board of education

prior to the lapse, the board of trustees shall appoint a

qualified person or persons to fill such vacancy or

vacancies for terms of up to four years.

4. Trustees shall serve without compensation, and any

trustee shall be reimbursed from the expense fund for all

necessary expenses which the trustee may incur through

service on the board of trustees.

5. Each trustee shall, within ten days after such

trustee's appointment or election, take an oath of office

before the clerk of the circuit court of the judicial

circuit in which the school district is located that, so far

as it devolves upon the trustee, the trustee will diligently

and honestly administer the affairs of the board of trustees

and that the trustee will not knowingly violate or willingly

permit to be violated any of the provisions of the law

applicable to the retirement system.

subscribed to by the trustee making it and filed in the

office of the clerk of the circuit court.

Such oath shall be

6. The circuit court of the judicial circuit in which

the school district is located shall have jurisdiction over

the members of the board of trustees to require them to

account for their official conduct in the management and

disposition of the funds and property committed to their

charge; to order, decree and compel payment by them to the

public school retirement system of their school district of

all sums of money, and of the value of all property which

may have been improperly retained by them, or transferred to

others, or which may have been lost or wasted by any

violation of their duties or abuse of their powers as such

members of such board; to remove any such member upon proof

that the trustee has abused the trustee's trust or has

violated the duties of the trustee's office; to restrain and

prevent any alienation or disposition of property of such

public school retirement system by the members, in cases

where it may be threatened, or there is good reason to

apprehend that it is intended to be made in fraud of the

rights and interests of such public school retirement

system. The jurisdiction conferred by sections 169.410 to

169.540 shall be exercised as in ordinary cases upon

petition, filed by the board of education of such school

district, or by any two members of the board of trustees.

Such petition shall be heard in a summary manner after ten

days' notice in writing to the member complained of, and an

appeal shall lie from the judgment of the circuit court as

in other causes and be speedily determined, but such appeal

shall not operate under any condition as a supersedeas of a

judgment of removal from office.

7. Each trustee shall be entitled to one vote in the

board of trustees. [Six votes shall be necessary for a

decision by the trustees at any meeting of the board of

trustees.]

constitute a quorum for the transaction of business at any

meeting of the board of trustees.

foregoing, no action or decision of the board of trustees

shall be effective unless approved by the affirmative vote

of at least seven members of the board of trustees.

Seven members of the board of trustees shall
Notwithstanding the

8. Subject to the limitations of sections 169.410 to

169.540, the board of trustees shall, from time to time,

establish rules and regulations for the administration of

the retirement system, for eligibility for and determination

of benefits under the retirement system, for the investment

of retirement system assets, and for the transaction of the

retirement system's business.

9. The board of trustees shall elect from its

membership a chairman and shall, by majority vote of its

members, appoint a secretary, who may be, but need not be,

one of its members.

other services as shall be required to transact the business

of the retirement system.

investment counselor who shall be experienced in the

investment of moneys to advise the trustees on investments

It shall engage such actuarial and
It shall also engage an

of the retirement system.

The compensation of all persons

engaged by the board of trustees and all other expenses of

the board necessary for the operation of the retirement

system shall be paid at such rates and in such amounts as

the board of trustees shall approve.

10. The board of trustees shall keep in convenient

form such data as shall be necessary for actuarial

valuations of the assets of the retirement system and for

checking the experience of the system.

11. The board of trustees shall keep a record of all

its proceedings which shall be open to public inspection.

It shall prepare annually and send to the board of education

and to each member of the retirement system a report showing

the fiscal transactions of the retirement system for the

preceding fiscal year, a detailed listing of all salaries

and expenditures incurred by the trustees for its operation,

the amount of the accumulated cash and securities of the

system, and the last balance sheet showing the financial

condition of the system by means of an actuarial valuation

of the assets and liabilities of the retirement system.

board of trustees shall also prepare or cause to be prepared

an annual report concerning the operation of the retirement

system herein provided for, which report shall be sent by

the chairman of the board of trustees to the board of

education.

The

12. The board of trustees shall arrange for necessary

legal advice for the operation of the retirement system.

13. The board of trustees shall designate a medical

board to be composed of three physicians, none of whom shall

be eligible for benefits pursuant to sections 169.410 to

169.540, who shall arrange for and pass upon all medical

examinations required pursuant to the provisions of sections

169.410 to 169.540, shall investigate all essential

statements and certificates made by or on behalf of a member

in connection with an application for disability retirement

and shall report in writing to the board of trustees its

conclusions and recommendations upon all matters referred to

it.

14. The actuary shall be the technical adviser of the

board of trustees on matters regarding the operation of the

system created by sections 169.410 to 169.540 and shall

perform such other duties as are required in connection

therewith. Such person shall be qualified as an actuary by

membership as a fellow in the Society of Actuaries or by

objective standards which are no less stringent than those

established by the Society of Actuaries.

15. At least once in each five-year period the actuary

shall make an investigation into the actuarial experience of

the retirement system, and taking into account the results

of such investigation of the experience, the board of

trustees shall adopt for the retirement system such

actuarial assumptions as shall be deemed necessary.

16. On the basis of such actuarial assumptions as the

board of trustees shall adopt, the actuary shall make an

annual valuation of the assets and liabilities of the funds

of the retirement system.

17. On the basis of the valuation the board of

trustees shall certify the rates of contribution payable by

the board of education.

✓
