SECOND REGULAR SESSION
[TRULY AGREED TO AND FINALLY PASSED]
HOUSE COMMITTEE SUBSTITUTE FOR

SENATE BILL NO. 1470
103RD GENERAL ASSEMBLY
6122H.02T

AN ACT
To repeal sections 2.040, 2.050, 2.060, 3.010, 3.110, 3.125, 3.140, 3.142, 23.010, 23.020, 23.040,
23.050, 23.060, 23.070, 23.080, 23.090, 23.140, 23.150, 23.160, 23.170, 23.195, and
23.262, RSMo, and to enact in lieu thereof nineteen new sections relating to the duties
and functions of the joint committee on legislative research.
Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

Section A.

Sections 2.040, 2.050, 2.060, 3.010, 3.110,

3.125, 3.140, 3.142, 23.010, 23.020, 23.040, 23.050, 23.060,

23.070, 23.080, 23.090, 23.140, 23.150, 23.160, 23.170, 23.195,

and 23.262, RSMo, are repealed and nineteen new sections enacted

in lieu thereof, to be known as sections 2.040, 2.050, 2.060,

3.010, 3.110, 3.125, 3.140, 3.142, 23.010, 23.020, 23.040,

23.050, 23.060, 23.070, 23.080, 23.090, 23.140, 23.150, and

23.195, to read as follows:

2.040. The joint committee on legislative research

shall provide copies of, or make available in a web-based

electronic format, or both, all laws, measures and

resolutions duly enacted by the general assembly and all

amendments to the constitution and all measures approved by

the people since the last publication of the session laws

pursuant to section 2.030, giving the date of the approval

or adoption thereof. The joint committee on legislative

research shall headnote, collate, index the laws,

EXPLANATION-Matter enclosed in bold-faced brackets [thus] in this bill is not enacted
and is intended to be omitted in the law.

resolutions and constitutional amendments, and compare the

proof sheets of the printed copies with the original rolls.

The revisor of statutes shall insert therein an attestation

under the revisor's hand that the revisor has compared the

laws, resolutions, constitutional amendments and measures

therein contained with the original rolls and copies in the

office of the secretary of state and that the same are true

copies of such laws, measures, resolutions and

constitutional amendments as the same appear in the original

rolls in the office of the secretary of state.

committee on legislative research shall cause the completed

laws, resolutions and constitutional amendments to be

printed and bound, or produced in a web-based electronic

format, or both.

The joint

2.050. The complete printed copies of laws,

resolutions, constitutional amendments and measures when

printed and bound shall be delivered to the revisor of

statutes who shall distribute [one copy without cost to each

member of the general assembly and one copy each, without

cost, to every county circuit clerk, circuit judge,

associate circuit judge, prosecuting attorney, and sheriff.

One copy each, without cost, shall be delivered to other

officers, institutions and agencies who are entitled to

copies of the Revised Statutes of Missouri under section

3.130, if requested] such copies in accordance with section

3.130.

2.060. The revisor of statutes may sell copies of the

laws and resolutions[, not required by this chapter to be

distributed without charge,] at actual cost of printing and

binding, as determined by the joint committee on legislative

research, plus the cost of delivery, and the money received

therefor shall be [paid to the director of revenue and]

deposited in the state treasury to the credit of the

statutory revision fund.

3.010. [Only upon the adoption of a concurrent

resolution by the general assembly] In accordance with

Article III, Section 34 of the Constitution of Missouri, the

revised statutes of Missouri shall be printed, published and

distributed in as many volumes as the committee on

legislative research (herein called "the committee") shall

determine, and such publication shall be under the direction

and supervision of the committee.

be provided for a general republication of the revised

statutes, the general assembly shall adopt a concurrent

resolution for such general republication.

or] supplements to the revised statutes of Missouri may be

printed separately and without a concurrent resolution being

adopted by the general assembly.

binding and delivery of such [publication] publications

shall be paid from funds appropriated from the general

revenue for that purpose or, if no appropriation is provided

for that purpose, from the statutory revision fund under

section 3.142.

If an appropriation is to

The [annotations

The cost of printing,

3.110. The printing and publication of the revised

statutes of Missouri, annotations thereto and supplements or

pocket parts and the paper used therefor, [shall] may be

obtained through the state director of the division of

purchasing, as otherwise provided by law.

3.125. 1.

The committee may publish annual or

biennial cumulative or noncumulative supplements or pocket

parts to the revised statutes of Missouri in lieu of

complete editions thereof except at such times as complete

editions are published.

parts is subject in all respects to the provisions of this

Any supplement or edition of pocket

law relating to the publication of an edition of the revised

statutes and the committee has the same powers and duties

with respect to the publication thereof.

printing thereof are duly appropriated by the general

assembly or moneys in the statutory revision fund under

section 3.142 are available, the committee shall cause to be

classified, arranged, numbered and printed in either an

edition of the revised statutes or in supplements or pocket

parts thereto, in accordance with this chapter, all laws of

a general nature adopted at any session of the general

assembly.

When funds for the

2. The committee shall report to the general assembly

whenever called upon, and shall prepare and submit to the

general assembly such consolidation, revision and other

matters relating to the statutes as can be completed from

time to time.

3.140. The committee on legislative research may,

through the revisor of statutes, sell copies of the revised

statutes of Missouri, and any supplement or edition of

pocket parts thereto, in print and/or in a web-based

electronic format at a price to be determined by the

committee, taking into account the cost of printing and

binding, producing the statutes and maintaining the website,

including the cost of delivery, and the money received

therefor shall be paid to the director of revenue and

deposited in the state treasury to the credit of the

[general revenue fund] statutory revision fund as required

under section 3.142.

3.142. 1.

There is hereby established in the state

treasury a revolving fund known as the "Statutory Revision

Fund", and which shall receive funds paid to the revisor of

statutes for sales of the revised statutes of Missouri or

any supplement thereto, whether in printed, electronic,

magnetic, or other form and funds received for any other

service for which there is a fee charged by the committee on

legislative research.

shall determine the form and any fees or charges for the

statutes or services.

custodian of the fund and shall make disbursements from the

fund for the costs associated with general republication of

the revised statutes of Missouri and its annual supplements

if no specific appropriation is provided by the general

assembly, and enhancing or producing the electronic form of

the revised statutes in a computer readable form, enhancing

the electronic processing of computerized legislative

drafting and such other purposes authorized by the joint

committee on legislative research upon appropriation by the

general assembly.

the direction of the committee on legislative research to

provide the revised statutes of Missouri and any supplement

thereto to public libraries of this state in a computer

readable format for use by patrons of the libraries.

The committee on legislative research
The state treasurer shall be

Moneys in the fund may also be used at

2. Any unexpended balance in the fund at the end of

any biennium not to exceed twice the cost of providing the

annual supplement to the revised statutes of Missouri is

exempt from the provisions of section 33.080 relating to

transfer of unexpended balances to the ordinary revenue fund.

23.010. A permanent joint committee of the general

assembly known as the "Committee on Legislative Research",

to be comprised of the chairman of the senate appropriations

committee [and nine other members of the senate and], the

president pro tempore of the senate, two members from the

majority party of the senate, the senate minority floor

leader, and one member from the minority party of the

senate, the chairman of the house budget committee [and nine

other members of the house of representatives], the speaker

of the house of representatives, two members of the majority

party of the house of representatives, the minority floor

leader of the house of representatives, and one member from

the minority party of the house of representatives, is

established and its offices are in the capitol building,

Jefferson City, Missouri.

the committee shall be appointed by the president pro [tem]

tempore of the senate [and], the senate minority member

shall be appointed by the senate minority floor leader, the

house majority members shall be appointed by the speaker of

the house [and], and the house minority members shall be

appointed by the house minority floor leader.

of each member shall continue during his term of office as a

member of the general assembly, or until a successor is

appointed to fill the place of any committee member whose

term of office has expired.

represented by more than six members from the house nor more

than six from the senate on the committee.

assembly, by a majority vote of the elected members, may

discharge any or all of the members of the committee at any

time and select their successors.]

The senate majority members of

Appointment

[No major party shall be
The general

23.020. The committee shall perform the following
services for the members of the general assembly:
(1) Provide a research and reference service on
legislative problems;

(2) Upon written request, make investigation into

legislative and governmental institutions of this state or

other states to aid the general assembly;

(3) Upon written request, assist and cooperate with

any interim legislative committee or commission created by

the general assembly;

(4) Upon [written] request of the joint committee,

draft or aid in drafting revision bills under section

23.045, and any resolutions[, memorials] and amendments

directly related to any revision bill or the duties and

functions of the joint committee on legislative research,

and render any other service in connection therewith for any

member of the general assembly.

23.040. From the time the general assembly of the

state convenes until it is adjourned finally, the committee

on legislative research, through its representatives, shall

give consideration to and service concerning any bill before

the general assembly requested by any member of the senate

or the house of representatives or any committee of the

general assembly having the bills before it for

consideration.

adjournment and during any recess or vacation.

of the committee shall not oppose or urge legislation but,

upon request, shall assist members of the general assembly

as to bills, resolutions and measures, draft them in proper

form and furnish to members any available information upon

matters which fall within the scope of the duties of the

committee.]

23.050. 1.

This service shall continue after
[Employees

The committee [may] shall obtain

information upon the needs, organization, functioning,

efficiency and financial status of any department of state

government or of any institution or agency which is

supported in whole or in part by revenue of the state;

collect and assemble information concerning the revenue of

the state and the tax resources of the state and upon

questions of statewide interest which may reasonably become

subjects of legislative action or of legislative

consideration; make available such information as is

requested by any member or member-elect of the general

assembly, provided that personally identifiable information

may be excluded in accordance with applicable law.

2. The committee shall compile a report of its

activities and a detailed account of its expenditures for

submission to the general assembly, which report shall be

completed at least thirty days prior to the convening of

each regular session of the general assembly.

shall be [mailed to the post-office address of] delivered to

each member of the present and forthcoming general assembly

and a copy of the report shall be submitted to each state

elective officer.

recommendations for legislative action as well as any

recommendations which the committee desires to make

concerning the efficient and economical operation of the

state government.

The report

The report shall include any

23.060. The material, including books and other

publications of the research library maintained by the

committee, is available to the members of the general

assembly. All officers of the state, all departments,

commissions and bureaus of the state, and all persons

connected therewith, the University of Missouri, the

[teachers'] public colleges and universities, and all

agencies of the state which are supported in whole or in

part by state funds shall give the committee, or its duly

authorized representatives, complete access to their records

and full information and all reasonable assistance in any

matter of research or investigation which, in the judgment

of the committee, requires recourse to them or to data

within their knowledge or control; but this section does not

compel the disclosure of any records or information which is

declared to be privileged or confidential by any other law

of this state, unless the committee is specifically

authorized to procure the information by a concurrent

resolution adopted by the general assembly.

23.070. The committee on legislative research shall

meet within [ten] thirty days after the convening of each

general assembly and organize by selecting a [chairman and a

vice chairman] chairperson and vice chairperson, one of whom

shall be a member of the senate and one of whom shall be a

member of the house of representatives.

1985, the chairman shall be a member of the house.

the chairman shall be a member of the senate.

chairman shall be a member of the house.

The chairpersonship and vice chairpersonship shall alternate

between members of the senate and house [each] every two

years [after 1987].

to the committee on legislative research.

directed by the committee, [he] the director shall keep the

records of the committee and be subject to the jurisdiction

and order of the committee during the vacation or recess of

the general assembly.

committee shall be in Jefferson City, Missouri, and after

its inception and organization it shall regularly meet at

least [once every three months] twice a year.

the members of the committee shall constitute a quorum and a

majority of a quorum may act for the entire committee.

Special meetings of the committee may be called at such time

and place within the state as the [chairman] chairperson

thereof designates.

[Until January of
In 1985

In 1987 the

The chairmanship]

The director shall serve as secretary
Unless otherwise

The regular meeting place of the

A majority of

23.080. 1.

The committee may regularly employ and fix

the compensation of a director of research who is competent

to assume administration of the necessary activities of the

committee under the direction of the committee.

committee may also employ other attorneys, research

assistants, clerks and other persons as it deems necessary

within the limits of the appropriation made therefor to

carry out the provisions of this chapter or to provide

assistance for the members and committees of the general

assembly. Except for those employees assigned to the

oversight division, all employees of the committee shall be

under the supervision of the director of research, and he or

she shall, as directed by the committee, assign and

supervise all work projects of those employees and keep all

necessary personnel records for those employees and others

of the committee if so directed.

oversight division shall be under the supervision of the

director of the oversight division[, and he shall, as

directed by the subcommittee, assign and supervise all work

projects of the employees of that division].

The

All employees of the

2. The committee may provide necessary legal reports

and other publications to be kept in the library of the

committee and pay for same out of any appropriations made to

the committee.

statutes shall furnish the librarian, without charge, the

number of Missouri statutes and session laws as is desired

by the committee to enable it to exchange the statutes and

session laws for those of other states.

The secretary of state and the revisor of

23.090. The committee on legislative research has

charge and control of the legislative library and all other

space within the capitol assigned to it, including the

oversight division.

23.140. 1.

Legislation, with the exception of

appropriation bills, introduced into either house of the

general assembly shall, before being acted upon, be

submitted to the oversight division of the committee on

legislative research for the preparation of a fiscal note.

The staff of the oversight division shall prepare a fiscal

note, examining the items contained in subsection 2 and such

additional items as may be provided either by joint rule of

the house and senate or by resolution adopted by the

committee or the oversight subcommittee.

2. The fiscal note shall state:

(1) The cost of the proposed legislation to the state

for the next two fiscal years;
(2) Whether or not the proposed legislation will

establish a program or agency that will duplicate an

existing program or agency;

(3) Whether or not there is a federal mandate for the
program or agency;
(4) Whether or not the proposed program or agency will

have significant direct fiscal impact upon any political

subdivision of the state;

(5) Whether or not any new physical facilities will be
required; and
(6) Whether or not the proposed legislation will have

an economic impact on small businesses.

this subdivision "small business" means a corporation,

partnership, sole proprietorship or other business entity,

including its affiliates, that:

For the purpose of

(a) Is independently owned and operated; and

(b) Employs fifty or fewer full-time employees.

3. The fiscal note for a bill shall accompany the bill

throughout its course of passage.

No member of the general

assembly, lobbyist or persons other than oversight division

staff members shall participate in the preparation of any

fiscal note unless the communication is in writing, with a

duplicate to be filed with the fiscal note or unless

requested for information by the fiscal analyst preparing

the note. Violations of this provision shall be reported to

the chairman of the legislative research committee and

subject the fiscal note and proposed bill to subcommittee

review. Once a fiscal note has been signed and approved by

the director of the oversight division, the note shall not

be changed or revised without prior approval of the chairman

of the legislative research committee, except to reflect

changes made in the bill it accompanies, or to correct

patent typographical, clerical or drafting errors that do

not involve changes of substance, nor shall substitution be

made therefor.

fiscal note shall be made in writing by a member of the

general assembly to the chairman of the legislative research

committee and a hearing before the committee or subcommittee

shall be granted as soon as possible.

general assembly, upon presentation of new or additional

material, may, within three legislative days after the

hearing on the request to revise, change or substitute a

fiscal note, request one rehearing before the full committee

to further consider the requested change.

if satisfied that new or additional material has been

presented, may recommend such rehearing to the full

committee, and the rehearing shall be held as soon as

possible thereafter.

Appeals to revise, change or to substitute a

Any member of the

The subcommittee,

4. The director of the division, hereinafter provided

for, or the director's designees, shall seek information and

advice from the affected department, division or agency of

state government and shall call upon the research staffs of

the house of representatives and of the senate, and upon the

staffs of the house and senate appropriations committees for

assistance in carrying out fiscal notes and evaluations of

programs selected by the committee, during the interim, and

each staff shall supply such information or advice as it

deems appropriate in response to the inquiry.

auditor shall, upon request, cooperate and provide

assistance in the conduct of audits and the preparation of

reports made in connection therewith.

may, upon the request of the director or his or her

designee, cooperate and provide assistance in the

preparation of fiscal notes.

5.

The state

The state auditor

The staff of the oversight division shall prepare a

post-implementation fiscal note for any legislation that has

been enacted and fully implemented for two years.

requirements and obligations with respect to the preparation

of fiscal notes elsewhere in law shall apply to post-

implementation fiscal notes.

implementation fiscal note shall be to compare the estimate

of the fiscal note relating to the final enacted version of

the legislation to the actual experience after the

legislation was implemented.

be implemented at the time of enactment of the legislation

by any department, division, or agency of state government

in order to comply with the requirements of the eventual

post-implementation fiscal note, such reporting shall occur

at the time of enactment.

23.150. 1.

All

The express purpose of a post-

To the extent reporting must

The committee on legislative research

shall organize an oversight division to prepare fiscal notes

and to conduct program evaluations [of state agencies],

including program evaluations involving budget transparency

and accountability.

of not less than six members to provide direct supervision

of the personnel and practices of the division.

subcommittee shall consist of one-half of the members

appointed by the chair from the house which he or she

represents and one-half of the members appointed by the vice

chair from the house which he or she represents.]

[The committee may form a subcommittee
The

2. Within the limits of the appropriations made for

this division, the committee [shall] may regularly employ

[a] and fix the compensation of the director of the

oversight division and other personnel as it deems

necessary. The director shall be qualified by training and

experience to conduct such evaluations, and he or she shall

be directly responsible for those activities.

of the oversight division, with the consent of the joint

committee, may employ personnel necessary to carry out the

duties prescribed in this chapter.

in the oversight division shall be professional persons

possessing a wide knowledge and demonstrated expertise in

governmental programming and financial planning, in

conducting program review evaluations and analytic studies,

and of federal, state, and local government budgetary

processes, laws and regulations of the state of Missouri.

23.195. 1.

The director

Persons employed to work

The oversight division of the committee on

legislative research shall maintain a register of all state

bonds or other evidences of indebtedness of all state

agencies and of entities of the state given authority by law

to incur indebtedness, whether or not the indebtedness is a

liability of the state, including lease purchase agreements

of at least ten thousand dollars for personal property which

have been issued or entered into by the state of Missouri or

by any state agency, authority or institution.

Indebtedness

compiled in the register shall include but not be limited to

that incurred by the third state building fund, the higher

education loan authority, the agriculture and small business

revenue authority, the health and education facilities

authority, the Missouri economic development commission, the

[environment] environmental and energy resources improvement

authority, the state-supported educational institutions of

higher learning, the bi-state development authority, the

several interstate bridge authorities, and any metro

transportation districts.

the details concerning the issuance and retirement of such

bonds or other evidence of indebtedness, including, but not

limited to, the date of issuance and maturity, the name of

the issuing state agency, terms and costs of any lease

purchase agreement if applicable, the rate of interest, the

manner of redemption, the purpose for which issued, and, if

retired, the date and manner of retirement.

The register shall contain all

2. The oversight division shall report on the total

bonded and other indebtedness including lease purchase

agreements of this state and its various agencies, entities,

and institutions to the individual members of the general

assembly on or before January fifteenth of each year.

Copies of the report shall also be delivered to the

governor, state auditor, state treasurer, and the state

librarian. Copies shall be made available to other

interested parties.

data and information to enable the members of the general

assembly to determine the amount of indebtedness outstanding

for each purpose for which bonded and other indebtedness has

been incurred and the total amount of money which will be

necessary to fully repay all principal and interest due on

such bonded or other indebtedness or to fulfill the terms of

Such report shall contain sufficient

any lease purchase agreement; including, but not limited to,

a summary of all pertinent information contained in the

register required by subsection 1 of this section.

3. Inclusion of any indebtedness in this register

shall not be construed that the indebtedness is, or is not,

state indebtedness.

4. The state auditor and each state agency and entity

shall cooperate fully with the oversight division in

collecting information for this register, and shall provide

information as requested for inclusion therein.

[23.160. 1. As used in this chapter, the
term "program evaluation" means a study which
determines and evaluates program performance
according to program objectives,
responsibilities, and duties as set forth by
statute or regulation. Program evaluations, in
accordance with generally accepted program
evaluation standards, shall determine:
(1) Whether the program is being performed
and administered as authorized or required by
law, and whether this action conforms with
statutory intent;
(2) Whether the objectives and intended
benefits are being achieved, and whether the
absence of such achievements suggest the need
for correction or additional legislation;
(3) Benefits derived from any program in
relation to the expenditures made therefor; and
(4) Whether the program duplicates,
overlaps, or conflicts with any other state
program.
2. As used in this chapter, the term
"resources" includes appropriated funds, federal
funds, grants, and personnel, and also includes
equipment and space, whether assigned, owned or
leased.
3. As used in this chapter, the term
"agency" includes each department and office
within the executive branch of government and
each identifiable unit thereof, including

institutions of higher learning, and each
identifiable unit of the legislative and
judicial branches of government.]

[23.170. 1. The oversight division of the
committee on legislative research shall,
pursuant to a duly adopted concurrent resolution
of the general assembly, or pursuant to a
resolution adopted by the committee on
legislative research, conduct program
evaluations of agencies as directed by any such
resolution.
2. The staff of any agency subject to a
program evaluation shall fully cooperate with
the staff of the oversight division and shall
provide all necessary information and assistance
for such an evaluation. All records of an
agency, unless otherwise expressly declared by
law to be confidential, may be inspected by the
oversight division staff while conducting the
evaluation, and the agency subject to the
evaluation shall afford the oversight division
staff with ample opportunity to observe agency
operations.
3. All evaluations shall be completed
within one year unless an extension is
authorized by the committee, but progress
reports shall be made to the committee at least
quarterly.
4. Any member of the general assembly and
any committee of either house of the general
assembly may submit requests for program
evaluations to the committee on legislative
research, and any agency may request an
evaluation of its operations. The director of
the division shall present program evaluations
completed during the previous legislative
interim period to appropriate committees of each
chamber during early hearings of those
committees at the next regular session.]

[23.262. 1. Between September first and
December first of the calendar year prior to the
year in which a program subject to sections
23.250 to 23.298 is scheduled to sunset, the

committee shall conduct public hearings
concerning but not limited to the application to
the program of the criteria provided in section
23.268.
2. The committee may hold the public
hearings prior to September first if the
evaluation of the program required in
subdivision (3) of subsection 1 of section
23.259 is complete and available to the public.]

✓
