SECOND REGULAR SESSION
[TRULY AGREED TO AND FINALLY PASSED]
SENATE SUBSTITUTE NO. 2 FOR

SENATE BILL NO. 999
103RD GENERAL ASSEMBLY
5530S.15T

AN ACT
To repeal sections 188.035, 192.990, 455.050, 565.002, 565.050, 565.052, 565.054, 565.056,
565.072, 565.073, 565.074, 565.076, 565.090, 565.091, 565.225, and 565.227, RSMo,
and to enact in lieu thereof twenty-two new sections relating to vulnerable persons,
with penalty provisions, a nonseverability clause, and an effective date for certain
sections.
Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

Section A.

Sections 188.035, 192.990, 455.050, 565.002,

565.050, 565.052, 565.054, 565.056, 565.072, 565.073, 565.074,

565.076, 565.090, 565.091, 565.225, and 565.227, RSMo, are

repealed and twenty-two new sections enacted in lieu thereof,

to be known as sections 27.117, 188.035, 192.990, 455.050,

544.667, 565.002, 565.050, 565.052, 565.054, 565.056, 565.072,

565.073, 565.074, 565.076, 565.090, 565.091, 565.225, 565.227,

565.400, 565.405, 573.570, and 573.575, to read as follows:

27.117.

A prosecuting or circuit attorney may request

assistance from the attorney general, or one of his or her

assistants, to assist in the prosecution of a violation of

sections 565.090, 565.091, 565.225, 565.227, 565.400,

565.405, 573.570, or 573.575, where the offense occurred in

more than one jurisdiction of the state.

circuit attorney may request any resource or capability of

the attorney general when prosecuting such cases.

The prosecuting or

EXPLANATION-Matter enclosed in bold-faced brackets [thus] in this bill is not enacted
and is intended to be omitted in the law.

SS#2 SB 999

188.035.

[Whoever, with intent to do so, shall take

the life of a child aborted alive, shall be guilty of murder

of the second degree.] 1.

may be cited as the "Born-Alive Abortion Survivors

Protection Act".

2.

This section shall be known and

A child born alive during or after an abortion or

an attempted abortion shall have all the rights, privileges,

and immunities available to other persons, citizens, and

residents of this state, including any other liveborn child.

3.

A health care provider licensed, registered, or

certified in this state who is present in the provider's

professional capacity at the time a child is born alive

during or after an abortion or attempted abortion shall

exercise the same degree of professional skill, care, and

diligence to preserve the life, health, and comfort of the

child as a reasonably diligent and conscientious health care

provider would render to any other child born alive at the

same gestational age.

4.

Any person who knowingly performs or attempts to

perform an overt act that kills a child born alive described

under subsection 3 of this section shall be guilty of first

degree murder under section 565.020.

5.

A person shall have the right to bring a cause of

action under sections 537.080 to 537.090 or chapter 538 for

any injury arising from a violation of the provisions of

subsection 3 of this section.

by this subsection shall not be deemed exclusive of any

other available administrative or criminal action which may

be brought as a result of any violation of the provisions of

this section.

6.

Any civil remedy contemplated

As used in this section, the term "born alive"

shall have the same meaning as in 1 U.S.C. Section 8(b).

SS#2 SB 999

7.

The natural and spontaneous loss of an unborn child

before fetal viability shall not be construed to be an

abortion, as such term is defined in section 188.015.

192.990.

1. There is hereby established within the

department of health and senior services the "Pregnancy-

Associated Mortality Review Board" to improve data

collection and reporting with respect to maternal deaths.

The department may collaborate with localities and with

other states to meet the goals of the initiative.

2. For purposes of this section, the following terms
shall mean:
(1) "Department", the Missouri department of health
and senior services;

(2) "Maternal death", the death of a woman while

pregnant or during the one-year period following the date of

the end of pregnancy, regardless of the cause of death and

regardless of whether a delivery, miscarriage, or death

occurs inside or outside of a hospital;

(3)

"Maternity care deserts", counties in which access

to maternity care services is limited or absent, either

through a lack of services or through barriers to a woman's

ability to access care within a county.

desert" shall include, but not be limited to, any county

without a hospital or birth center offering obstetric care

and without any obstetric clinicians.

A "maternity care

3. The board shall be composed of no more than

[eighteen] twenty-two members, with a chair elected from

among its membership.

per year and shall approve the strategic priorities, funding

allocations, work processes, and products of the board.

Members of the board shall be appointed by the director of

the department.

The board shall meet at least twice

Members shall serve four-year terms, except

SS#2 SB 999

that the initial terms shall be staggered so that

approximately one-third serve three-, four-, and five-year

terms.

4. The board shall have a multidisciplinary and

diverse membership that represents a variety of medical and

nursing specialties, including, but not limited to,

obstetrics and maternal-fetal care, as well as state or

local public health officials, epidemiologists,

statisticians, community organizations, geographic regions,

and other individuals or organizations that are most

affected by maternal deaths and lack of access to maternal

health care services.

congressional district shall be selected to serve on the

board and membership shall be demographically diverse and

shall include representation from both rural and urban

populations.

At least one member from each

5. The duties of the board shall include, but not be
limited to:

(1) Conducting ongoing comprehensive,

multidisciplinary reviews of all maternal deaths;

(2) Identifying factors associated with maternal
deaths;
(3) Identifying maternity care deserts throughout the
state;
(4) Reviewing medical records and other relevant data,
which shall include, to the extent available:
(a) A description of the maternal deaths determined by

matching each death record of a maternal death to a birth

certificate of an infant or fetal death record, as

applicable, and an indication of whether the delivery,

miscarriage, or death occurred inside or outside of a

hospital;

SS#2 SB 999

(b) Data collected from medical examiner and coroner
reports, as appropriate; [and]
(c) The level and timing of prenatal and postnatal
medical care; and
(d) Using other appropriate methods or information to

identify maternal deaths, including deaths from pregnancy

outcomes not identified under paragraph (a) of this

subdivision;

[(4)] (5)

Consulting with relevant experts, as needed;

[(5)] (6)

Analyzing cases to produce recommendations

for reducing maternal mortality;
[(6)] (7)

Disseminating recommendations to policy

makers, health care providers and facilities, and the

general public;

[(7)] (8)

Recommending and promoting preventative

strategies and making recommendations for systems changes;
[(8)] (9)

Protecting the confidentiality of the

hospitals and individuals involved in any maternal deaths;
[(9)] (10)

maternal deaths;

(11)

Examining racial and social disparities in

Investigating and developing recommendations

regarding approaches taken in other states or other

organizations to reduce or eliminate racial inequities in

maternal deaths, including community-driven strategies,

health care accessibility, insurance availability, and other

barriers to access and delivery of prenatal and postpartum

care;

[(10)] (12)

Subject to appropriation, providing for

voluntary and confidential case reporting of maternal deaths

to the appropriate state health agency by family members of

the deceased, and other appropriate individuals, for

purposes of review by the board;

SS#2 SB 999

[(11)] (13)

Making publicly available the contact

information of the board for use in such reporting;

[(12)] (14)

Conducting outreach to local professional

organizations, community organizations, and social services

agencies regarding the availability of the review board;

[and]

(15)

Examining and developing recommendations on the

adequacy of data collected under this section and if

additional categories of data would be informative in the

study of maternal deaths in Missouri; and

[(13)] (16)

Ensuring that data collected under this

section is made available, as appropriate and practicable,

for research purposes, in a manner that protects

individually identifiable or potentially identifiable

information and that is consistent with state and federal

privacy laws.

6. The board may contract with other entities
consistent with the duties of the board.
7. (1) Before June 30, 2020, and annually thereafter,

the board shall submit to the Director of the Centers for

Disease Control and Prevention, the director of the

department, the governor, and the general assembly a report

on maternal mortality in the state based on data collected

through ongoing comprehensive, multidisciplinary reviews of

all maternal deaths, and any other projects or efforts

funded by the board.

practices to reliably determine and include all maternal

deaths, regardless of the outcome of the pregnancy and shall

include data, findings, and recommendations of the

committee, and, as applicable, information on the

implementation during such year of any recommendations

submitted by the board in a previous year.

The data shall be collected using best

Data reported by

SS#2 SB 999

the board shall be disaggregated by race, ethnicity,

language, nationality, age, zip code, the presence or

absence of maternity care deserts, and level and timing of

prenatal and postnatal care in a manner that protects

individually identifiable or potentially identifiable

information and that is consistent with state and federal

privacy laws.

(2) The report shall be made available to the public

on the department's website and the director shall

disseminate the report to all health care providers and

facilities that provide women's health services in the state.

8. The director of the department, or his or her

designee, shall provide the board with the copy of the death

certificate and any linked birth or fetal death certificate

for any maternal death occurring within the state.

9. Upon request by the department, health care

providers, health care facilities, clinics, laboratories,

medical examiners, coroners, law enforcement agencies,

driver's license bureaus, other state agencies, and

facilities licensed by the department shall provide to the

department data related to maternal deaths from sources such

as medical records, autopsy reports, medical examiner's

reports, coroner's reports, law enforcement reports, motor

vehicle records, social services records, and other sources

as appropriate.

maternal deaths which have occurred within the previous

twenty-four months.

civil damages or be subject to any criminal or disciplinary

action when complying in good faith with a request from the

department for information under the provisions of this

subsection.

Such data requests shall be limited to
No entity shall be held liable for

SS#2 SB 999

10. (1)

The board shall protect the privacy and

confidentiality of all patients, decedents, providers,

hospitals, or any other participants involved in any

maternal deaths.

identifiable health information be provided to the public or

submitted to an information clearinghouse.

In no case shall any individually

(2) Nothing in this subsection shall prohibit the

board or department from publishing statistical compilations

and research reports that:

(a) Are based on confidential information relating to
mortality reviews under this section; and

(b) Do not contain identifying information or any

other information that could be used to ultimately identify

the individuals concerned.

(3) Information, records, reports, statements, notes,

memoranda, or other data collected under this section shall

not be admissible as evidence in any action of any kind in

any court or before any other tribunal, board, agency, or

person. Such information, records, reports, notes,

memoranda, data obtained by the department or any other

person, statements, notes, memoranda, or other data shall

not be exhibited nor their contents disclosed in any way, in

whole or in part, by any officer or representative of the

department or any other person.

such review shall disclose, in any manner, the information

so obtained except in strict conformity with such review

project. Such information shall not be subject to

disclosure under chapter 610.

No person participating in

(4) All information, records of interviews, written

reports, statements, notes, memoranda, or other data

obtained by the department, the board, and other persons,

SS#2 SB 999

agencies, or organizations so authorized by the department

under this section shall be confidential.

(5) All proceedings and activities of the board,

opinions of members of such board formed as a result of such

proceedings and activities, and records obtained, created,

or maintained under this section, including records of

interviews, written reports, statements, notes, memoranda,

or other data obtained by the department or any other

person, agency, or organization acting jointly or under

contract with the department in connection with the

requirements of this section, shall be confidential and

shall not be subject to subpoena, discovery, or introduction

into evidence in any civil or criminal proceeding; provided,

however, that nothing in this section shall be construed to

limit or restrict the right to discover or use in any civil

or criminal proceeding anything that is available from

another source and entirely independent of the board's

proceedings.

(6) Members of the board shall not be questioned in

any civil or criminal proceeding regarding the information

presented in or opinions formed as a result of a meeting or

communication of the board; provided, however, that nothing

in this section shall be construed to prevent a member of

the board from testifying to information obtained

independently of the board or which is public information.

11. The department may use grant program funds to

support the efforts of the board and may apply for

additional federal government and private foundation grants

as needed. The department may also accept private,

foundation, city, county, or federal moneys to implement the

provisions of this section.

SS#2 SB 999

455.050.

1. Any full or ex parte order of protection

granted pursuant to sections 455.010 to 455.085 shall be to

protect the petitioner from cyberstalking, domestic

violence, stalking, or sexual assault and may include such

terms as the court reasonably deems necessary to ensure the

petitioner's safety, including but not limited to:

(1) Temporarily enjoining the respondent from

committing or threatening to commit cyberstalking, domestic

violence, molesting, stalking, sexual assault, or disturbing

the peace of the petitioner, including violence against a

pet;

(2) Temporarily enjoining the respondent from entering

the premises of the dwelling unit of the petitioner when the

dwelling unit is:

(a) Jointly owned, leased or rented or jointly
occupied by both parties; or
(b) Owned, leased, rented or occupied by petitioner
individually; or
(c) Jointly owned, leased, rented or occupied by

petitioner and a person other than respondent; provided,

however, no spouse shall be denied relief pursuant to this

section by reason of the absence of a property interest in

the dwelling unit; or

(d) Jointly occupied by the petitioner and a person

other than respondent; provided that the respondent has no

property interest in the dwelling unit; or

(3) Temporarily enjoining the respondent from

communicating with the petitioner in any manner or through

any medium.

2. Mutual orders of protection are prohibited unless
both parties have properly filed written petitions and

SS#2 SB 999

proper service has been made in accordance with sections

455.010 to 455.085.

3. When the court has, after a hearing for any full

order of protection, issued an order of protection, it may,

in addition:

(1) Award custody of any minor child born to or

adopted by the parties when the court has jurisdiction over

such child and no prior order regarding custody is pending

or has been made, and the best interests of the child

require such order be issued;

(2) Establish a visitation schedule that is in the
best interests of the child;
(3) Award child support in accordance with supreme
court rule 88.01 and chapter 452;
(4) Award maintenance to petitioner when petitioner

and respondent are lawfully married in accordance with

chapter 452;

(5) Order respondent to make or to continue to make

rent or mortgage payments on a residence occupied by the

petitioner if the respondent is found to have a duty to

support the petitioner or other dependent household members;

(6) Order the respondent to pay the petitioner's rent

at a residence other than the one previously shared by the

parties if the respondent is found to have a duty to support

the petitioner and the petitioner requests alternative

housing;

(7) Order that the petitioner be given temporary

possession of specified personal property, such as

automobiles, checkbooks, keys, and other personal effects;

(8) Prohibit the respondent from transferring,

encumbering, or otherwise disposing of specified property

mutually owned or leased by the parties;

SS#2 SB 999

(9) Order the respondent to participate in a court-

approved counseling program designed to help batterers stop

violent behavior or to participate in a substance abuse

treatment program;

(10) Order the respondent to pay a reasonable fee for

housing and other services that have been provided or that

are being provided to the petitioner by a shelter for

victims of domestic violence;

(11) Order the respondent to pay court costs;

(12) Order the respondent to pay the cost of medical

treatment and services that have been provided or that are

being provided to the petitioner as a result of injuries

sustained to the petitioner by an act of domestic violence

committed by the respondent;

(13) Award possession and care of any pet, along with

any moneys necessary to cover medical costs that may have

resulted from abuse of the pet.

4. A verified petition seeking orders for maintenance,

support, custody, visitation, payment of rent, payment of

monetary compensation, possession of personal property,

prohibiting the transfer, encumbrance, or disposal of

property, or payment for services of a shelter for victims

of domestic violence, shall contain allegations relating to

those orders and shall pray for the orders desired.

5. In making an award of custody, the court shall

consider all relevant factors including the presumption that

the best interests of the child will be served by placing

the child in the custody and care of the nonabusive parent,

unless there is evidence that both parents have engaged in

abusive behavior, in which case the court shall not consider

this presumption but may appoint a guardian ad litem or a

court-appointed special advocate to represent the children

SS#2 SB 999

in accordance with chapter 452 and shall consider all other

factors in accordance with chapter 452.

6. The court shall grant to the noncustodial parent

rights to visitation with any minor child born to or adopted

by the parties, unless the court finds, after hearing, that

visitation would endanger the child's physical health,

impair the child's emotional development or would otherwise

conflict with the best interests of the child, or that no

visitation can be arranged which would sufficiently protect

the custodial parent from further domestic violence.

court may appoint a guardian ad litem or court-appointed

special advocate to represent the minor child in accordance

with chapter 452 whenever the custodial parent alleges that

visitation with the noncustodial parent will damage the

minor child.

The

7. The court shall make an order requiring the

noncustodial party to pay an amount reasonable and necessary

for the support of any child to whom the party owes a duty

of support when no prior order of support is outstanding and

after all relevant factors have been considered, in

accordance with Missouri supreme court rule 88.01 and

chapter 452.

8. The court may grant a maintenance order to a party

for a period of time, not to exceed one hundred eighty

days. Any maintenance ordered by the court shall be in

accordance with chapter 452.

9. (1) The court may, in order to ensure that a

petitioner can maintain an existing wireless telephone

number or numbers, issue an order, after notice and an

opportunity to be heard, directing a wireless service

provider to transfer the billing responsibility for and

rights to the wireless telephone number or numbers to the

SS#2 SB 999

petitioner, if the petitioner is not the wireless service

accountholder.

(2) (a)

The order transferring billing responsibility

for and rights to the wireless telephone number or numbers

to the petitioner shall list the name and billing telephone

number of the accountholder, the name and contact

information of the person to whom the telephone number or

numbers will be transferred, and each telephone number to be

transferred to that person.

contact information of the petitioner is not provided to the

accountholder in proceedings held under this chapter.

The court shall ensure that the

(b) Upon issuance, a copy of the full order of

protection shall be transmitted, either electronically or by

certified mail, to the wireless service provider's

registered agent listed with the secretary of state, or

electronically to the email address provided by the wireless

service provider.

adequate notice for the wireless service provider acting

under this section and section 455.523.

Such transmittal shall constitute

(c) If the wireless service provider cannot

operationally or technically effectuate the order due to

certain circumstances, the wireless service provider shall

notify the petitioner within three business days.

circumstances shall include, but not be limited to, the

following:

Such

a. The accountholder has already terminated the
account;
b. The differences in network technology prevent the
functionality of a device on the network; or
c. There are geographic or other limitations on
network or service availability.

SS#2 SB 999

(3) (a)

Upon transfer of billing responsibility for

and rights to a wireless telephone number or numbers to the

petitioner under this subsection by a wireless service

provider, the petitioner shall assume all financial

responsibility for the transferred wireless telephone number

or numbers, monthly service costs, and costs for any mobile

device associated with the wireless telephone number or

numbers.

(b) This section shall not preclude a wireless service

provider from applying any routine and customary

requirements for account establishment to the petitioner as

part of this transfer of billing responsibility for a

wireless telephone number or numbers and any devices

attached to that number or numbers including, but not

limited to, identification, financial information, and

customer preferences.

(4) This section shall not affect the ability of the

court to apportion the assets and debts of the parties as

provided for in law, or the ability to determine the

temporary use, possession, and control of personal property.

(5) No cause of action shall lie against any wireless

service provider, its officers, employees, or agents, for

actions taken in accordance with the terms of a court order

issued under this section.

(6) As used in this section and section 455.523, a

"wireless service provider" means a provider of commercial

mobile service under Section 332(d) of the Federal

[Telecommunications Act of 1996] Communications Act of 1934

(47 U.S.C. Section [151, et seq.] 332).

544.667.

In addition to the forfeiture of any security

which was given or pledged for a person's release, any

person who, having been released upon a recognizance or bond

SS#2 SB 999

pursuant to any other provisions of law while pending

preliminary hearing, trial, sentencing, appeal, probation or

parole revocation, or any other stage of a criminal matter

against him or her, knowingly violates any condition of

release that imposes no contact with specific individuals

shall be guilty of a class A misdemeanor.

565.002.

As used in this chapter, unless a different

meaning is otherwise plainly required the following terms

mean:

(1) "Adequate cause", cause that would reasonably

produce a degree of passion in a person of ordinary

temperament sufficient to substantially impair an ordinary

person's capacity for self-control;

(2) "Bodily harm", physical pain or injury, illness,
or any impairment of physical condition;
(3) "Child", a person under [seventeen] eighteen years
of age;

[(3)] (4)

"Conduct", includes any act or omission;

[(4)] (5)

"Course of conduct", a pattern of conduct

composed of two or more acts, which may include

communication by any means, over a period of time, however

short, evidencing a continuity of purpose.

protected activity is not included within the meaning of

course of conduct.

includes picketing or other organized protests;

[(5)] (6)

Constitutionally

Such constitutionally protected activity

"Deliberation", cool reflection for any

length of time no matter how brief;
[(6)] (7)

"Domestic victim", a household or family

member as the term "family" or "household member" is defined

in section 455.010, including any child who is a member of

the household or family;

SS#2 SB 999

[(7)] (8)

"Emotional distress", something markedly

greater than the level of uneasiness, nervousness,

unhappiness, or the like which are commonly experienced in

day-to-day living;

[(8)] (9)

"Full or partial nudity", the showing of all

or any part of the human genitals, pubic area, buttock, or

any part of the nipple of the breast of any female person,

with less than a fully opaque covering;

(10)

"Great bodily harm", bodily injury which creates

a high probability of death, or which causes serious

permanent or protracted loss or impairment of function of

any bodily member or organ, or other serious bodily harm;

[(9)] (11)

"Legal custody", the right to the care,

custody and control of a child;

[(10)] (12)

parent by adoption;

[(11)] (13)

"Parent", either a biological parent or a
"Person having a right of custody", a

parent or legal guardian of the child;
[(12)] (14)

"Photographs" or "films", the making of

any photograph, motion picture film, videotape, or any other

recording or transmission of the image of a person;

[(13)] (15)

"Place where a person would have a

reasonable expectation of privacy", any place where a

reasonable person would believe that a person could disrobe

in privacy, without being concerned that the person's

undressing was being viewed, photographed or filmed by

another;

[(14)] (16)

(a) A law enforcement officer assaulted in the

performance of his or her official duties or as a direct

result of such official duties;

"Special victim", any of the following:

SS#2 SB 999

(b) Emergency personnel, any paid or volunteer

firefighter, emergency room, hospital, or trauma center

personnel, or emergency medical technician, assaulted in the

performance of his or her official duties or as a direct

result of such official duties;

(c) A probation and parole officer assaulted in the

performance of his or her official duties or as a direct

result of such official duties;

(d) An elderly person;

(e) A person with a disability;

(f) A vulnerable person;

(g) Any jailer or corrections officer of the state or

one of its political subdivisions assaulted in the

performance of his or her official duties or as a direct

result of such official duties;

(h) A highway worker in a construction or work zone as

the terms "highway worker", "construction zone", and "work

zone" are defined under section 304.580;

(i) Any utility worker, meaning any employee of a

utility that provides gas, heat, electricity, water, steam,

telecommunications services, or sewer services, whether

privately, municipally, or cooperatively owned, while in the

performance of his or her job duties, including any person

employed under a contract;

(j) Any cable worker, meaning any employee of a cable

operator, as such term is defined in section 67.2677,

including any person employed under contract, while in the

performance of his or her job duties; and

(k) Any employee of a mass transit system, including

any employee of public bus or light rail companies, while in

the performance of his or her job duties;

SS#2 SB 999

(17)

"Substantial bodily harm", bodily injury which

involves a temporary but substantial disfigurement, or which

causes temporary but substantial loss or impairment of the

function of any bodily member or organ, or which causes a

fracture of any bodily member;

[(15)] (18)

"Sudden passion", passion directly caused

by and arising out of provocation by the victim or another

acting with the victim which passion arises at the time of

the offense and is not solely the result of former

provocation;

(19)

"Technological abuse conduct", an act or pattern

of behavior that is intended to harm, threaten, intimidate,

control, stalk, harass, monitor, except as otherwise

permitted by law, another person, that occurs using any form

of technology, including internet enabled devices, online

platforms, computers, mobile devices, cameras and imaging

programs, apps, location tracking devices, or any other

emerging technologies;

[(16)] (20)

"Trier", the judge or jurors to whom

issues of fact, guilt or innocence, or the assessment and

declaration of punishment are submitted for decision;

[(17)] (21)

"Views", the looking upon of another

person, with the unaided eye or with any device designed or

intended to improve visual acuity, for the purpose of

arousing or gratifying the sexual desire of any person.

565.050.

1. A person commits the offense of assault

in the first degree if he or she attempts to kill or

knowingly causes or attempts to cause [serious physical

injury] great bodily harm to another person.

2. The offense of assault in the first degree is a

class B felony unless in the course thereof the person

inflicts [serious physical injury] great bodily harm on the

SS#2 SB 999

victim, or if the victim of such assault is a special

victim, as the term "special victim" is defined under

section 565.002, in which case it is a class A felony.

565.052.

1. A person commits the offense of assault

in the second degree if he or she:
(1) Attempts to kill or knowingly causes or attempts

to cause [serious physical injury] great bodily harm to

another person under the influence of sudden passion arising

out of adequate cause; or

(2) Attempts to cause or knowingly causes [physical

injury]

weapon or dangerous instrument; or

bodily harm to another person by means of a deadly

(3) Recklessly causes [serious physical injury] great
bodily harm to another person; or
(4) Recklessly causes [physical injury] bodily harm to
another person by means of discharge of a firearm.
2. The defendant shall have the burden of injecting

the issue of influence of sudden passion arising from

adequate cause under subdivision (1) of subsection 1 of this

section.

3. The offense of assault in the second degree is a

class D felony, unless the victim of such assault is a

special victim, as the term "special victim" is defined

under section 565.002, in which case it is a class B felony.

565.054.

1. A person commits the offense of assault

in the third degree if he or she knowingly causes [physical

injury] bodily harm to another person.

2. The offense of assault in the third degree is a

class E felony, unless the victim of such assault is a

special victim, as the term "special victim" is defined

under section 565.002, in which case it is a class D felony.

SS#2 SB 999

565.056.

1. A person commits the offense of assault

in the fourth degree if:

(1) The person attempts to cause or recklessly causes

[physical injury, physical pain, or illness] bodily harm to

another person;

(2) With criminal negligence the person causes

[physical injury] bodily harm to another person by means of

a firearm;

(3) The person purposely places another person in

apprehension of immediate [physical injury] bodily harm;

(4) The person recklessly engages in conduct which

creates a substantial risk of death or [serious physical

injury] great bodily harm to another person;

(5) The person knowingly causes or attempts to cause

physical contact with a person with a disability, which a

reasonable person, who does not have a disability, would

consider offensive or provocative; or

(6) The person knowingly causes physical contact with

another person knowing the other person will regard the

contact as offensive or provocative.

2. Except as provided in subsection 3 of this section,
assault in the fourth degree is a class A misdemeanor.
3. Violation of the provisions of subdivision (3) or

(6) of subsection 1 of this section is a class C misdemeanor

unless the victim is a special victim, as the term "special

victim" is defined under section 565.002, in which case a

violation of such provisions is a class A misdemeanor.

565.072.

1. A person commits the offense of domestic

assault in the first degree if he or she attempts to kill or

knowingly causes or attempts to cause [serious physical

injury] great bodily harm to a domestic victim, as the term

"domestic victim" is defined under section 565.002.

SS#2 SB 999

2. The offense of domestic assault in the first degree

is a class B felony unless in the course thereof the person

inflicts serious physical injury on the victim, in which

case it is a class A felony.

565.073.

1. A person commits the offense of domestic

assault in the second degree if the act involves a domestic

victim, as the term "domestic victim" is defined under

section 565.002, and he or she:

(1) Knowingly causes [physical injury] bodily harm to

such domestic victim by any means, including but not limited

to, use of a deadly weapon or dangerous instrument, or by

choking or strangulation; or

(2) Recklessly causes [serious physical injury] great
bodily harm to such domestic victim; or
(3) Recklessly causes [physical injury] bodily harm to
such domestic victim by means of any deadly weapon.
2. The offense of domestic assault in the second
degree is a class D felony.
565.074.

1. A person commits the offense of domestic

assault in the third degree if he or she attempts to cause

[physical injury] substantial bodily harm or knowingly

causes [physical pain or illness] bodily harm to a domestic

victim, as the term "domestic victim" is defined under

section 565.002.

2. The offense of domestic assault in the third degree

is a class E felony.

565.076.

1. A person commits the offense of domestic

assault in the fourth degree if the act involves a domestic

victim, as the term "domestic victim" is defined under

section 565.002, and:

SS#2 SB 999

(1) The person attempts to cause or recklessly causes

[physical injury, physical pain, or illness] bodily harm to

such domestic victim;

(2) With criminal negligence the person causes

[physical injury] bodily harm to such domestic victim by

means of a deadly weapon or dangerous instrument;

(3) The person purposely places such domestic victim

in apprehension of immediate [physical injury] bodily harm

by any means;

(4) The person recklessly engages in conduct which

creates a substantial risk of death or [serious physical

injury] great bodily harm to such domestic victim;

(5) The person knowingly causes physical contact with

such domestic victim knowing he or she will regard the

contact as offensive; or

(6) The person knowingly attempts to cause or causes

the isolation of such domestic victim by unreasonably and

substantially restricting or limiting his or her access to

other persons, telecommunication devices or transportation

for the purpose of isolation.

2. The offense of domestic assault in the fourth

degree is a class A misdemeanor, unless the person has

previously been found guilty of the offense of domestic

assault, of any assault offense under this chapter, or of

any offense against a domestic victim committed in violation

of any county or municipal ordinance in any state, any state

law, any federal law, or any military law which if committed

in this state two or more times would be a violation of this

section, in which case it is a class E felony.

described in this subsection may be against the same

domestic victim or against different domestic victims.

The offenses

SS#2 SB 999

565.090.

1. A person commits the offense of

harassment in the first degree if he or she, without good

cause, engages in any act with the purpose to cause

emotional distress to another person, and such act does

cause such person to suffer emotional distress.

2. The offense of harassment in the first degree is a

class E felony, unless the defendant has previously been

found guilty of a violation of this section or section

565.091, or any offense committed in another jurisdiction

which, if committed in this state, would be chargeable or

indictable as a violation of any offense listed in this

section or section 565.091, in which case harassment in the

first degree is a class D felony.

3. This section shall not apply to activities of

federal, state, county, or municipal law enforcement

officers conducting investigations of violation of federal,

state, county, or municipal law.

565.091.

1. A person commits the offense of

harassment in the second degree if he or she, without good

cause, engages in any act with the purpose to cause

emotional distress to another person.

2. The offense of harassment in the second degree is a

class A misdemeanor, unless the [person has previously

pleaded guilty to or been found guilty of a violation of

this section, of any offense committed in violation of any

county or municipal ordinance in any state, any state law,

any federal law, or any military law which if committed in

this state would be chargeable or indictable as a violation

of any offense listed in this subsection, in which case it

is a class E felony] defendant has previously been found

guilty of a violation of this section or section 565.090, or

of any offense committed in another jurisdiction which, if

SS#2 SB 999

committed in this state, would be chargeable or indictable

as a violation of any offense listed in this section or

section 565.090, in which case harassment in the second

degree is a class E felony.

3. This section shall not apply to activities of

federal, state, county, or municipal law enforcement

officers conducting investigations of violations of federal,

state, county, or municipal law.

565.225.

1. [As used in this section and section

565.227, the term "disturbs" shall mean to engage in a

course of conduct directed at a specific person that serves

no legitimate purpose and that would cause a reasonable

person under the circumstances to be frightened,

intimidated, or emotionally distressed.

2.]

A person commits the offense of stalking in the

first degree if he or she [purposely] knowingly, through

[his or her] a course of conduct[, disturbs or follows with

the intent of disturbing] that is directed at another person

[and] or through technological abuse conduct, engages in

conduct that would cause a reasonable person under similar

circumstances to:

(1) [Makes a threat communicated with the intent to

cause the person who is the target of the threat to

reasonably] Fear [for his or her safety, the safety of his

or her family or household member, or the safety of domestic

animals or livestock as defined in section 276.606 kept at

such person's residence or on such person's property.

threat shall be against the life of, or a threat to cause

physical] death or bodily injury to[, or the kidnapping of]

the person[,];

(2)

The

Fear that an offense will be committed against a

member of the person's family or household members, or [the

SS#2 SB 999

person's domestic animals or livestock as defined in section

276.606 kept at such person's residence or on such person's

property] an individual with whom the person has a dating

relationship; [or

(2) At least one of the acts constituting the course

of conduct is in violation of an order of protection and the

person has received actual notice of such order; or]

(3) [At least one of the actions constituting the

course of conduct is in violation of a condition of

probation, parole, pretrial release, or release on bond

pending appeal] Fear that an offense will be committed

against the person's property; or

(4) [At any time during the course of conduct, the

other person is seventeen years of age or younger and the

person disturbing the other person is twenty-one years of

age or older; or

(5) He or she has previously been found guilty of

domestic assault, violation of an order of protection, or

any other crime where the other person was the victim; or

(6) At any time during the course of conduct, the

other person is a participant of the address confidentiality

program under sections 589.660 to 589.681, and the person

disturbing the other person knowingly accesses or attempts

to access the address of the other person] Feel harassed,

terrified, or intimidated.

[3.] 2. Any law enforcement officer may arrest,

without a warrant, any person he or she has probable cause

to believe has violated the provisions of this section.

[4.] 3. This section shall not apply to activities of

federal, state, county, or municipal law enforcement

officers conducting investigations of any violation of

federal, state, county, or municipal law.

SS#2 SB 999

[5.] 4. The offense of stalking in the first degree is

a class E felony, unless the defendant has previously been

found guilty of a violation of this section or section

565.227, or any offense committed in another jurisdiction

which, if committed in this state, would be chargeable or

indictable as a violation of any offense listed in this

section or section 565.227, or unless the victim is

intentionally targeted as a law enforcement officer, as

defined in section 556.061, or the victim is targeted

because he or she is a relative within the second degree of

consanguinity or affinity to a law enforcement officer, in

which case stalking in the first degree is a class D felony.

565.227.

1. A person commits the offense of stalking

in the second degree if he or she [purposely, through his or

her course of] knowingly engages in a course of conduct[,

disturbs, or follows with the intent to disturb another

person] directed at a specific person or technological abuse

conduct which would cause a reasonable person under the

circumstances to feel harassed, terrified, or intimidated.

2. This section shall not apply to activities of

federal, state, county, or municipal law enforcement

officers conducting investigations of any violation of

federal, state, county, or municipal law.

3. Any law enforcement officer may arrest, without a

warrant, any person he or she has probable cause to believe

has violated the provisions of this section.

4. The offense of stalking in the second degree is a

class A misdemeanor, unless the defendant has previously

been found guilty of a violation of this section or section

565.225, or of any offense committed in another jurisdiction

which, if committed in this state, would be chargeable or

indictable as a violation of any offense listed in this

SS#2 SB 999

section or section 565.225, or unless the victim is

intentionally targeted as a law enforcement officer, as

defined in section 556.061, or the victim is targeted

because he or she is a relative within the second degree of

consanguinity or affinity to a law enforcement officer, in

which case stalking in the second degree is a class E felony.

565.400.

1. A person commits the offense of

cyberharassment if such person purposely or knowingly

engages in a threatening, aggressive, or otherwise fear-

inducing, course of conduct by using digital technology,

internet service providers, electronic service providers, or

other electronic communications and devices to cause

reasonable fear, alarm, anxiety, undue stress, or terror to

others by repeated contact with no legitimate purpose.

2.

The first offense of cyberharassment shall be a

class B misdemeanor.

shall be a class A misdemeanor.

565.405.

A second and any subsequent offense

1. A person commits the offense of

cyberstalking if such person purposely or knowingly engages

in a threatening, aggressive, or otherwise fear-inducing,

course of conduct by using digital technology, internet

service providers, electronic service providers, or other

electronic communications and devices to enhance the ability

to intimidate, track, follow or cause reasonable fear,

alarm, anxiety, undue stress, or terror to another person.

2.

A misdemeanor.

a class E felony.

573.570.

The first offense of cyberstalking shall be a class

terms mean:

(1)

A second and any subsequent offense shall be
1. As used in this section, the following

"Depicted individual", an individual who, as a

result of digitization or by means of digital manipulation,

SS#2 SB 999

appears in whole or in part in an intimate digital depiction

and who is identifiable by virtue of the individual's face,

likeness, or other distinguishing characteristic, such as a

unique birthmark or other recognizable feature, or from

information displayed in connection with the digital

depiction;

(2)

"Digital depiction", a realistic visual depiction

of an individual that has been created or altered using

digital manipulation;

(3)

"Information content providers", any person or

entity that is responsible, in whole or in part, for the

creation or development of information provided through the

internet or any other interactive computer service;

(4)

"Intimate digital depiction", a digital depiction

of an individual that has been created or altered using

digital manipulation and that depicts:

(a)

The uncovered genitals, pubic area, anus, or

postpubescent female nipple of an identifiable individual;

(b)

The display or transfer of bodily sexual fluids:

a.

Onto any part of the body of an identifiable

individual; or

b.

From the body of an identifiable individual; or

(c)

An identifiable individual engaging in sexually

explicit conduct;

(5)

"Sexually explicit conduct", actual or simulated:

(a)

Sexual intercourse, including genital-genital,

oral-genital, anal-genital, or oral-anal, whether between

persons of the same or opposite sex;

(b)

Bestiality;

(c)

Masturbation;

(d)

Sadistic or masochistic abuse; or

SS#2 SB 999

(e)

Lascivious exhibition of the genitals or pubic

area of any person.
2.

A person commits the offense of disclosure of an

intimate digital depiction if the person:

(1)

Discloses an intimate digital depiction:

(a)

With the intent to harass, annoy, threaten, alarm,

or cause substantial harm to the finances or reputation of

the depicted individual; or

(b)

With the actual knowledge that, or reckless

disregard for whether, such disclosure will cause physical,

emotional, reputational, or economic harm to the depicted

individual; or

(2)

Threatens to disclose an intimate digital

depiction:
(a)

With the intent to harass, annoy, threaten, alarm,

or cause substantial harm to the finances or reputation of

the depicted individual; or

(b)

With the actual knowledge that, or reckless

disregard for whether, such threatened disclosure will cause

physical, emotional, reputational, or economic harm to the

depicted individual.

3.

(1) A violation of subdivision (1) of subsection 2

of this section shall be a class D felony.
(2)

A violation of subdivision (2) of subsection 2 of

this section shall be a class E felony.
(3)

A violation of subsection 2 of this section shall

be a class C felony if:
(a)

The violation is a second or other subsequent

violation of subsection 2 of this section; or
(b)

The violation is such that the digital depiction

could be reasonably expected to:

SS#2 SB 999

a.

Affect the conduct of any administrative,

legislative, or judicial proceeding of a federal, state,

local, or tribal government agency, including the

administration of an election or the conduct of foreign

relations; or

b.

Facilitate violence.

4.

It shall not be a defense to an offense of

disclosure of an intimate digital depiction under this

section that there is a disclaimer stating that the intimate

digital depiction of the depicted individual was

unauthorized or that the depicted individual did not

participate in the creation or development of the digital

depiction.

5.

For the purposes of this section, a provider of an

interactive computer service shall not be held to have

committed the offense of disclosure of an intimate digital

depiction due to:

(1)

Any action voluntarily taken in good faith to

restrict access to or availability of intimate digital

depictions; or

(2)

Any action taken to enable or make available to

information content providers or other persons the technical

means to restrict access to intimate digital depictions.

573.575.

1. A person commits the offense of sadistic

online exploitation if he or she:
(1)

Uses the internet to manipulate, intimidate, hurt,

scare, control, or threaten a victim to undergo suffering

through forcing their submission, use of violence, self-

harm, or destruction for sadistic or sinister purposes;

(2)

Coerces a victim into performing self-harm, animal

harm, harming another person, sharing personal information,

or suicidal actions or ideations;

SS#2 SB 999

(3)

Uses nonphysical forms of coercion, manipulation,

shame or fear to extort another person into providing

sexually explicit content then using such content to further

extort, threaten, or control the victim; or

(4)

Uses intimate depictions as devices to threaten or

coerce a victim by demanding any kind of financial gain.
2.

The offense of sadistic online exploitation shall

be a class E felony.

Section B.

Notwithstanding the provisions of section

1.140 to the contrary, the provisions of section A of this

act shall be nonseverable, and if any provision is for any

reason held to be invalid, such decision shall invalidate

all of the remaining provisions of section A of this act.

Section C.

The repeal and reenactment of sections

565.002, 565.050, 565.052, 565.054, 565.056, 565.072,

565.073, 565.074, 565.076, 565.090, 565.091, 565.225, and

565.227 and the enactment of sections 27.117, 565.400, and

565.405 of this act shall become effective on July 1, 2027.

✓
