MISSISSIPPI LEGISLATURE

REGULAR SESSION 2026

By:

To: Corrections;
Appropriations A

Representatives Currie, Scott

COMMITTEE SUBSTITUTE
FOR
HOUSE BILL NO. 1694

AN ACT TO AMEND SECTION 47-5-158, MISSISSIPPI CODE OF 1972,
TO REVISE THE COMPOSITION OF THE INMATE WELFARE FUND COMMITTEE TO
INCLUDE THE CHAIRPERSONS OF THE HOUSE AND SENATE CORRECTIONS
COMMITTEES AND THE CHAIRPERSONS OF THE HOUSE AND SENATE
ACCOUNTABILITY, EFFICIENCY AND TRANSPARENCY COMMITTEES AS
NONVOTING MEMBERS; TO REQUIRE THE COMMITTEE TO MEET AT LEAST ONCE
QUARTERLY; AND FOR RELATED PURPOSES.

BE IT ENACTED BY THE LEGISLATURE OF THE STATE OF MISSISSIPPI:

SECTION 1.

amended as follows:

47-5-158.

Section 47-5-158, Mississippi Code of 1972, is

(1)

The department is authorized to maintain a

bank account which shall be designated as the Inmate Welfare Fund.

All monies now held in a similar fund or in a bank account or

accounts for the benefit and welfare of inmates shall be deposited

into the Inmate Welfare Fund.

benefit and welfare of inmates in the custody of the department

and shall be expended in accordance with any provisions or

restrictions in the regulations promulgated under subsection (7)

of this section.

H. B. No. 1694
PAGE 1 (RF\KP)

This fund shall be used for the

*HR43/R81CS.2*

~ OFFICIAL ~

G1/2

(2)

There shall be deposited into the Inmate Welfare Fund

interest previously earned on inmate deposits, all net profits

from the operation of inmate canteens, performances of the

Penitentiary band, interest earned on the Inmate Welfare Fund and

other revenues designated by the commissioner.

be deposited into the Inmate Welfare Fund as provided in Section

7-9-21.

(3)

the department.

department, upon requisition by the commissioner or his designee,

only for the purposes established in this subsection.

All monies shall

All inmate telephone call commissions shall be paid to

(a)

Monies in the fund may be expended by the

Twenty-five percent (25%) of the inmate telephone

call commissions shall be used to purchase and maintain

telecommunication equipment to be used by the department.

(b)

Until July 1, 2008, twenty-five percent (25%) of

the inmate telephone call commissions shall be deposited into the

Prison Agricultural Enterprise Fund.

thirty-five percent (35%) of the inmate telephone call commissions

shall be deposited into the Prison Agricultural Enterprise Fund.

The department may use these funds to supplement the Prison

Agricultural Enterprise Fund created in Section 47-5-66.

(c)

Beginning on July 1, 2008,

Forty percent (40%) of the inmate telephone call

commissions shall be deposited into the Inmate Welfare Fund.
(4)

The commissioner may invest in the manner authorized by

law any money in the Inmate Welfare Fund that is not necessary for
H. B. No. 1694
PAGE 2 (RF\KP)

*HR43/R81CS.2*

~ OFFICIAL ~

immediate use, and the interest earned shall be deposited in the

Inmate Welfare Fund.

(5)

The Deputy Commissioner for Administration and Finance

shall establish and implement internal accounting controls for the

Inmate Welfare Fund that comply with generally accepted accounting

principles and regulations of the Department of Finance and

Administration.

Finance shall prepare and issue quarterly consolidated and

individual facility financial statements to the prison auditor of

the Joint Legislative Committee on Performance Evaluation and

Expenditure Review.

annual report which shall include a summary of expenditures from

the fund by major categories and by individual facility.

annual report shall be sent to the prison auditor, the Legislative

Budget Office, the * * * Chairperson of the Corrections Committee

of the Senate, and the * * * Chairperson of the Corrections

Committee of the House of Representatives.

(6)

(a)

The Deputy Commissioner for Administration and

The deputy commissioner shall prepare an

This

A portion of the Inmate Welfare Fund shall be

deposited in the Discharged Offenders Revolving Fund, as created

under Section 47-5-155, in amounts necessary to provide a balance

not to exceed One Hundred Thousand Dollars ($100,000.00) in the

Discharged Offenders Revolving Fund, and shall be used to

supplement those amounts paid to discharged, paroled or pardoned

offenders from the department.

facility shall establish equitable criteria for the making of
H. B. No. 1694
PAGE 3 (RF\KP)

The superintendent of the Parchman

*HR43/R81CS.2*

~ OFFICIAL ~

supplemental payments which shall not exceed Two Hundred Dollars

($200.00) for any offender.

subject to the approval of the commissioner.

shall not be required to replenish the Discharged Offenders

Revolving Fund for the supplemental payments made to discharged,

paroled or pardoned offenders.

(b)

The supplemental payments shall be
The State Treasurer

A portion of the Inmate Welfare Fund shall be

deposited into the Inmate Incentive to Work Program Fund, as

created under Section 47-5-371, in amounts necessary to provide a

balance not to exceed One Million Dollars ($1,000,000.00) in the

fund.

participants in the Inmate Incentive to Work Program as created

under Section 47-5-371.

Such fund shall be utilized to pay inmates who are

(7)

(a)

The Inmate Welfare Fund Committee is hereby created

and shall be composed of * * * thirteen (13) members:

Commissioner for Community Corrections, the Deputy Commissioner of

Institutions, the Superintendent of the Parchman facility, the

Superintendent of the Rankin County facility, the Superintendent

of the Greene County facility, the State Treasurer, the State

Auditor, * * * two (2) members to be appointed by the Commissioner

of Corrections, one (1) of whom must have a relative incarcerated

by the department at the time of appointment and shall be a

representative of inmate families, the Chairpersons of the House

and Senate Corrections Committees, or their designees, as

nonvoting members, and the Chairpersons of the House and Senate
H. B. No. 1694
PAGE 4 (RF\KP)

*HR43/R81CS.2*

~ OFFICIAL ~

The Deputy

Accountability, Efficiency and Transparency Committees, or their

designees, as nonvoting members.

the * * * chairperson of the committee.

administer and supervise the operations and expenditures from the

Inmate Welfare Fund and shall maintain an official minute book

upon which shall be spread its authorization and approval for all

such expenditures.

governing the use and expenditures of the fund.

shall meet at least once quarterly.

shall be a majority of the voting members.

(b)

The commissioner shall appoint
The committee shall

The committee shall promulgate regulations
The committee

A quorum of the committee

Regulations adopted shall set out what types of

items shall be allowable purchases, and in all cases, the minutes

of the committee shall explain which regulation permits any

purchase it approves.

shall prescribe the number of members necessary to constitute a

quorum, minimum attendance requirements for a member to retain a

seat on the committee, and a mission statement for the committee.

(c)

Additionally, regulations of the committee

The committee shall conduct an annual needs

assessment to determine what types of items should be purchased

for the benefit of inmates.

conducted with the assistance of the department personnel, inmates

and the families of inmates.

(d)

The needs assessments shall be

The committee shall evaluate the proposals of

interested third parties for the administration of inmate canteen

services as provided in Section 47-5-109.1.
H. B. No. 1694
PAGE 5 (RF\KP)

*HR43/R81CS.2*

~ OFFICIAL ~

(e)

The committee shall expend necessary funds to

assist parole eligible inmates who have been diagnosed with a

mental illness while housed within a state correctional facility

so that such inmates may receive outpatient services and

community-based services to treat the mental illness of such

inmates.

(8)

The Department of Audit shall conduct an annual

comprehensive special audit of the committee's use of the Inmate

Welfare Fund.

audit report any recommendations it has concerning the financial

and management control practices of the committee.

shall report its findings and recommendations to the * * *

Chairpersons of the Senate and House Corrections Committees.

The department shall incorporate in its special

The department

SECTION 2. This act shall take effect and be in force from
and after July 1, 2026.

H. B. No. 1694
PAGE 6 (RF\KP)

~ OFFICIAL ~
ST: Inmate Welfare Fund; revise committee for
and increase inmate phone call commissions
percentage deposited to.

*HR43/R81CS.2*
