SESSION
09/05
SENATE BILL

470-FN

relative to the expungement of certain disciplinary matters.

SPONSORS:

Sen. Rochefort, Dist 1; Sen. Reardon, Dist 15; Sen. Pearl, Dist 17

COMMITTEE:

Executive Departments and Administration

─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
ANALYSIS
This bill allows licensees subject to certain disciplinary matters that did not include permanent
revocation of license to petition to have the disciplinary records expunged.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------Explanation:

Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.
Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]
Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

09/05

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE
In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty-Six

relative to the expungement of certain disciplinary matters.

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

New Section; Office of Professional Licensure and Certification; Expungement of Disciplinary
Action. Amend RSA 310 by inserting after section 10 the following new section:
310:10-a Expungement of Disciplinary Action.

I. Any current or past licensee of a board or the office who has been subject to disciplinary

action by the board that did not include revocation of license may file a petition with the office to

have it determine if the records from such action should be classified as confidential, not for public

release, and considered expunged for reporting purposes if:

(a) The application is submitted more than 3 years after the subject disciplinary action
occurred;

(b) The disciplinary action did not include permanent revocation of license;

(c) The licensee has had no further disciplinary action against their license since the

disciplinary action identified in the application occurred;

(d) The office has no pending investigations against the licensee; and

(e) The licensee's license is currently in good standing.

II. Petitions that involve disciplinary action that only included a reprimand, administrative

fine, reasonable cost of investigation and prosecution, or a combination thereof shall be granted if

they meet the requirements in paragraph I.

III. All other petitions shall be granted if they meet the requirements in paragraph I and the

petitioner also demonstrates that expungement will assist in the licensee's rehabilitation and is

consistent with protecting the public welfare. In making this determination, the office shall consider

the nature of the conduct that resulted in the disciplinary action; the nature of the disciplinary

action; and the current circumstances of the petitioner, including but not limited to their

rehabilitation, completion of the requirements of the disciplinary action, amount of time that has

passed since completion of the disciplinary action, testimonials, employment history, and

employment aspirations.

IV. Any licensee who has their petition denied by the office shall have the right to a hearing

before the appropriate board or, if no such board exists, the office in accordance with RSA 310.

Requests for a hearing shall be made in writing to the appropriate board within 30 days of receipt of

the original final decision.

V. The executive director may adopt rules in accordance with RSA 541-A to implement this
section.

- Page 2 1

Office of Professional Licensure and Certification; Rulemaking Authority. Amend RSA 310:6,

II to read as follows:

II.

Such organizational and procedural rules necessary to administer the boards in the

office, including rules governing the administration of complaints and investigations, hearings,

disciplinary

manufactured housing dispute resolution, inspections, payment processing procedures, and

application procedures. For purposes of this paragraph, "manufactured housing dispute resolution"

means a program for the timely resolution of disputes between manufacturers, retailers, and

installers of manufactured homes, including the issuance of appropriate orders, regarding

responsibility for the correction or repair of defects in manufactured homes for defects that are

reported during the one-year period beginning on the date of installation.

Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.

and

non-disciplinary

proceedings,

expungement

of

disciplinary

action,

LBA
10/29/25
SB 470-FN- FISCAL NOTE
AS INTRODUCED

relative to the expungement of certain disciplinary matters.

FISCAL IMPACT:
The Legislative Budget Assistant has determined that this legislation has a total fiscal impact
of less than $10,000 in each of the fiscal years 2026 through 2029.
AGENCIES CONTACTED:
Office of Professional Licensure and Certification
