Senate Bill No. 64, relating to elections; relating to voters; relating to voting; relating to voter registration; relating to election administration; relating to the Alaska Public Offices Commission; relating to campaign contributions; relating to the crimes of unlawful interference with voting in the first degree, unlawful interference with an election, and election official misconduct; relating to synthetic media in electioneering communications; relating to campaign signs; relating to voter registration on permanent fund dividend applications; relating to the Redistricting Board; and relating to the duties of the commissioner of revenue. 00 HOUSE CONCURRENT RESOLUTION NO. 12 01 Suspending Rules 24(c), 35, 41(b), and 42(e), Uniform Rules of the Alaska State 02 Legislature, concerning Senate Bill No. 64, relating to elections; relating to voters; 03 relating to voting; relating to voter registration; relating to election administration; 04 relating to the Alaska Public Offices Commission; relating to campaign contributions; 05 relating to the crimes of unlawful interference with voting in the first degree, unlawful 06 interference with an election, and election official misconduct; relating to synthetic 07 media in electioneering communications; relating to campaign signs; relating to voter 08 registration on permanent fund dividend applications; relating to the Redistricting 09 Board; and relating to the duties of the commissioner of revenue. 10 BE IT RESOLVED BY THE LEGISLATURE OF THE STATE OF ALASKA: 11 That under Rule 54, Uniform Rules of the Alaska State Legislature, the provisions of 12 Rules 24(c), 35, 41(b), and 42(e), Uniform Rules of the Alaska State Legislature, regarding 13 changes to the title of a bill, are suspended in consideration of Senate Bill No. 64, relating to 01 elections; relating to voters; relating to voting; relating to voter registration; relating to 02 election administration; relating to the Alaska Public Offices Commission; relating to 03 campaign contributions; relating to the crimes of unlawful interference with voting in the first 04 degree, unlawful interference with an election, and election official misconduct; relating to 05 synthetic media in electioneering communications; relating to campaign signs; relating to 06 voter registration on permanent fund dividend applications; relating to the Redistricting 07 Board; and relating to the duties of the commissioner of revenue. Welcome toThe Alaska State Legislature This web site is the place to track bills, locate and contact your legislators, and access committee information. Questions? Try our help wizard or call 907-465-4648. SMS Bill Tracking Text a bill number (ex: HB1) to 559-245-2529 to enroll in text alerts. You will receive an enrollment confirmation and instructions on how to stop receiving the alerts. WHO REPRESENTS ME??FIND Quick Links Infobases Districts FAQ Legislative Information Offices Legislative Affairs Agency Public Opinion Messages Legislative Links Finance Audit Ombudsman 100 Years Centennial Office of Victims' Rights Statutory Reporting Ethics LB&A senate Majority Minority house Majority Minority Disclaimer / Credits Webmaster Accessibility Mobile Apps Copyright © 2026 Alaska Legislature, All Rights Reserved. Disclaimer / Credits Webmaster Accessibility
