SECOND REGULAR SESSION
[TRULY AGREED TO AND FINALLY PASSED]
SENATE SUBSTITUTE FOR
SENATE COMMITTEE SUBSTITUTE FOR

SENATE BILL NO. 916
103RD GENERAL ASSEMBLY
3834S.08T

AN ACT
To repeal sections 537.600 and 537.610, RSMo, and to enact in lieu thereof two new sections
relating to sovereign immunity.
Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

Section

A.

Sections

537.600

and

537.610,

RSMo,

are

repealed and two new sections enacted in lieu thereof, to be

known as sections 537.600 and 537.610, to read as follows:

537.600.

1. Such sovereign or governmental tort

immunity as existed at common law in this state prior to

September 12, 1977, except to the extent waived, abrogated

or modified by statutes in effect prior to that date, shall

remain in full force and effect; except that, the immunity

of the public entity from liability and suit for

compensatory damages for negligent acts or omissions is

hereby expressly waived in the following instances:

(1) Injuries directly resulting from the negligent

acts or omissions by public employees, or an agent of the

Missouri department of transportation, arising out of the

operation of motor vehicles or motorized vehicles within the

course of their employment;

(2) Injuries caused by the condition of a public
entity's property if the plaintiff establishes that the

property was in dangerous condition at the time of the

injury, that the injury directly resulted from the dangerous

condition, that the dangerous condition created a reasonably

foreseeable risk of harm of the kind of injury which was

incurred, and that either a negligent or wrongful act or

omission of an employee of the public entity, or an agent of

the Missouri department of transportation, within the course

of his employment, created the dangerous condition or a

public entity, or an agent of the Missouri department of

transportation, had actual or constructive notice of the

dangerous condition in sufficient time prior to the injury

to have taken measures to protect against the dangerous

condition. In any action under this subdivision wherein a

plaintiff alleges that he was damaged by the negligent,

defective, or dangerous design of a highway or road, which

was designed and constructed prior to September 12, 1977,

the public entity shall be entitled to a defense which shall

be a complete bar to recovery whenever the public entity can

prove by a preponderance of the evidence that the alleged

negligent, defective, or dangerous design reasonably

complied with highway and road design standards generally

accepted at the time the road or highway was designed and

constructed.

2. The express waiver of sovereign immunity in the

instances specified in subdivisions (1) and (2) of

subsection 1 of this section are absolute waivers of

sovereign immunity in all cases within such situations

whether or not the public entity was functioning in a

governmental or proprietary capacity and whether or not the

public entity is covered by a liability insurance for tort.

3. A statutory cause of action for damages against an

agent of the Missouri department of transportation is hereby

created, replacing any such common law cause of action

against a private contractor, subcontractor, engineer, or

employee thereof for liability of claims arising from

design, condition, or maintenance of a Missouri department

of transportation project after execution of a contract to

perform work but prior to the commencement of construction

activities on the project site and for when construction

activities on the project site are approved and accepted by

the Missouri department of transportation.

department of transportation shall be solely liable for

personal injury or death arising out of instances after

execution of a contract to perform work but prior to the

commencement of construction activities and after

construction activities on the project site are approved and

accepted by the Missouri department of transportation.

4.

The Missouri

The immunity provided in subsection 3 of this

section shall not apply when any of the following conditions

exist:

(1)

The work is so defective that it creates an

imminent danger to third parties;
(2)

A defect in the work was concealed and not

discoverable by a reasonable inspection by the state

highways and transportation commission;

(3)

The agent of the Missouri department of

transportation knew of the dangerous condition and did not

disclose it to the state highways and transportation

commission; or

(4)

The plans or specifications followed were so

imperfect or improper that the agent of the Missouri

department of transportation should have known the work to

be done thereunder would result in an unsafe condition.

5.

The Missouri standard specifications for highway

construction, or its successor, as published by the state

highway and transportation commission shall not include

provisions requiring a contractor to indemnify or defend the

state, the state highways and transportation commission,

employees of the Missouri department of transportation, or

an agent of the Missouri department of transportation prior

to the commencement of work under a contract.

shall be required to agree to an indemnification or a duty

to defend provision as a condition of any agreement to

perform work for the state highways and transportation

commission.

No contractor

6. The term "public entity" as used in this section

shall include any multistate compact agency created by a

compact formed between this state and any other state which

has been approved by the Congress of the United States.

7.

The term "agent of the Missouri department of

transportation" as used in this section shall mean any

private contractors, subcontractors, engineers or the

employees thereof performing work in accordance with the

plans and specifications approved by the Missouri department

of transportation.

8.

The term "final inspection" as used in this section

shall mean the project engineer has made an inspection of

the project and determined that all construction

contemplated by the contract has been completed to the

engineer's satisfaction, and the engineer has notified the

contractor in writing of acceptance for maintenance as of

the date of that inspection, with the exception of items

covered by item specific performance bonds.

9.

The phrase "after execution of a contract to

perform work but prior to the commencement of construction

activities" as used in this section shall apply as a period

of time when a contract is fully executed and signed by an

agent of the Missouri department of transportation and the

Missouri department of transportation but shall end when the

agent of the Missouri department of transportation first

begins performing work pursuant to the terms of the

contract, including the furnishing of labor, material,

equipment, and other incidentals necessary or convenient to

the successful completion of the project and the carrying

out of duties and obligations imposed by the contract.

10.

The phrase "construction activities on the project

site are approved and accepted by the Missouri department of

transportation" as used in this section shall apply as a

fixed date in time when all corrections are completed by an

agent of the Missouri department of transportation and a

final inspection has been conducted by the engineer for the

Missouri department of transportation.

acceptance of the construction activities on the project

site shall be deemed approved and accepted for partial or

full acceptance of the work on a project site upon the

expiration of twenty business days after conducting the

final inspection by the Missouri department of

transportation.

537.610.

Approval and

1. The commissioner of administration,

through the purchasing division, and the governing body of

each political subdivision of this state, notwithstanding

any other provision of law, may purchase liability insurance

for tort claims, made against the state or the political

subdivision, but the maximum amount of such coverage shall

not exceed two million dollars for all claims arising out of

a single occurrence and shall not exceed three hundred

thousand dollars for any one person in a single accident or

occurrence, except for those claims governed by the

provisions of the Missouri workers' compensation law,

chapter 287, and no amount in excess of the above limits

shall be awarded or settled upon.

the state of Missouri and its political subdivisions is

waived only to the maximum amount of and only for the

purposes covered by such policy of insurance purchased

pursuant to the provisions of this section and in such

amount and for such purposes provided in any self-insurance

plan duly adopted by the governing body of any political

subdivision of the state.

it relates to political subdivisions, the term "purchase"

refers only to the direct acquisition by a governing body of

a political subdivision of this state of insurance coverage

from an insurance company or other business entity and does

not include any indirect action by contract or otherwise

including, but not limited to, requiring additional insured

coverage or insured status under the insurance policy of

another person or entity.

Sovereign immunity for

For purposes of this section as

2. The liability of the state and its public entities

on claims within the scope of sections 537.600 to 537.650,

shall not exceed two million dollars for all claims arising

out of a single accident or occurrence and shall not exceed

three hundred thousand dollars for any one person in a

single accident or occurrence, except for those claims

governed by the provisions of the Missouri workers'

compensation law, chapter 287.

3. No award for damages on any claim against a public

entity within the scope of sections 537.600 to 537.650,

shall include punitive or exemplary damages.

4. If the amount awarded to or settled upon multiple

claimants exceeds two million dollars, any party may apply

to any circuit court to apportion to each claimant his

proper share of the total amount limited by subsection 1 of

this section.

in the proportion that the ratio of the award or settlement

made to him bears to the aggregate awards and settlements

for all claims arising out of the accident or occurrence,

but the share shall not exceed three hundred thousand

dollars.

The share apportioned each claimant shall be

5. The limitation on awards for liability provided for

in this section shall be increased or decreased on an annual

basis effective January first of each year in accordance

with the Implicit Price Deflator for Personal Consumption

Expenditures as published by the Bureau of Economic Analysis

of the United States Department of Commerce.

value of the limitation shall be calculated by the director

of the department of commerce and insurance, who shall

furnish that value to the secretary of state, who shall

publish such value in the Missouri Register as soon after

each January first as practicable, but it shall otherwise be

exempt from the provisions of section 536.021.

The current

6. Any claim filed against any public entity under

this section shall be subject to the penalties provided by

supreme court rule 55.03, or any successor rule.

✓
