HB259

HG1VL68-1

By Representative Shaw

RFD: Financial Services

First Read: 15-Jan-26

Page 0

HG1VL68-1 01/15/2026 JWB (L)JWB 2025-3818

SYNOPSIS:

This bill would prohibit a person from issuing

certain digital assets known as a payment stablecoins

in the state unless the person is licensed as a

permitted payment stablecoin issuer.

This bill would authorize the Alabama Securities

Commission to process and license applicants to become

Alabama qualified payment stablecoin issuers.

This bill would authorize the Alabama Securities

Commission to implement and administer this act, and

implement the federal Guiding and Establishing National

Innovation for U.S. Stablecoins Act and any regulation

adopted pursuant to that act.

Beginning in 2028, this bill would prohibit the

offer or sale of a payment stablecoin that is not

issued by a permitted payment stablecoin issuer.

This bill would authorize the Alabama Securities

Commission to recognize certain payment stablecoins for

use by a state governmental entity to make payments to

vendors and contractors for goods and services

rendered.

This bill would authorize governmental entities

to pay for contracts, if requested by the vendor or

contractor, using payment stablecoins.

This bill would require a governmental entity to
Page 1

give certain disclosures to vendors and contractors

before entering a contract where a payment stablecoin

is used as payment.

This bill would also create civil and criminal
penalties for violations of this act.

A BILL

TO BE ENTITLED

AN ACT

Relating to cryptocurrency; to add a new Chapter 7B to

Title 8, Code of Alabama 1975; to prohibit a person from

issuing digital assets as a payment stablecoin unless that

person is a permitted payment stablecoin issuer; to prohibit

the offer or sale of any payment stablecoin, beginning in

2028, unless the payment stablecoin is issued by a permitted

payment stablecoin issuer; to authorize the use of certain

authorized payment stablecoins to make payments to vendors and

contractors; to require payment to vendors and contractors to

be made by payment stablecoin beginning in 2031; to authorize

the Alabama Securities Commission to process and license

applicants to become Alabama qualified payment stablecoin

issuers; to authorize the Alabama Securities Commission to

enforce and implement this act, the GENIUS Act, and any

federal regulation adopted under that act; and to create civil

and criminal penalties for violations.

BE IT ENACTED BY THE LEGISLATURE OF ALABAMA:
Page 2

Section 1. Chapter 7B, commencing with Section 8-7B-1,

is added to Title 8, Code of Alabama 1975, to read as follows:

Chapter 7B

§8-7B-1

(a) This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the

Financial Innovation and Market Expansion Act.

(b) The intent of this chapter is to implement Section

4(c) of the federal Guiding and Establishing National

Innovation for U.S. Stablecoins Act, 12 U.S.C. § 5903(c),

governing regulation of payement stablecoins at the state

level.

§8-7B-2

For the purposes of this act, the following terms have

the following meanings:

(1) ALABAMA QUALIFIED PAYMENT STABLECOIN ISSUER. A

stablecoin issuer licensed and approved by the commission

through the licensing process in 8-7B-5.

(2) AUTHORIZED PAYMENT STABLECOIN. A payment stablecoin
that complies with the requirements of Section 8-7B-4.

(3) COMMISSION. The Alabama Securities Commission.

(4) COMPTROLLER. The Office of the Comptroller of the

Currency.

(5) DIGITAL ASSET SERVICE PROVIDER. A person that, in

the United States and for compensation or profit, engages in

the business of exchanging digital assets for monetary value,

exchanging digital assets for other digital assets,

transferring digital assets to a third party, acting as a

digital asset custodian, or participating in financial
Page 3

services relating to digital asset insurance. The term does

not include a person that engages in the business of

developing or operating distributed ledger protocols,

self-custodial software interfaces, or validating transactions

through a distributed ledger. The term does not include a

person that participates in a liquidity poll or other similar

mechanism for the provisioning of liquidity for peer-to-peer

transactions.

(6) GENIUS ACT. The Guiding and Establishing National

Innovation for U.S. Stablecoins Act, 12 U.S.C. §§ 5901-5916.

(7) GOVERNMENTAL ENTITY. Any state or local agency or

instrumentality thereof located in the state.
(8) INTENTIONALLY. A person acts intentionally with

respect to a result or to conduct described by a statute

defining an offense, when his or her purpose is to cause that

result or to engage in that conduct.

(9) KNOWINGLY. A person acts knowingly with respect to

conduct or to a circumstance described by a statute defining

an offense when he or she is aware that his or her conduct is

of that nature or that the circumstance exists.

(10) OPEN, PUBLIC, OR DECENTRALIZED NETWORK. A

blockchain network that is open to use by the public without

permission of use by governing authorities or a network that

is operated using distributed ledger technology, where the

data is stored in separate physical locations.

(11) PAYMENT STABLECOIN. A digital asset or assets

designed to maintain a stable value that is, or is designed to

be, used as a means of payment or settlement. The issuer of
Page 4

the token:
a. Is obligated to convert, redeem, or repurchase the
token for a fixed amount of monetary value; and

b. Represents, or creates the reasonable expectation,

that the token will maintain a stable value relative to the

value of a fixed amount of monetary value.

(12) PERMITTED PAYMENT STABLECOIN ISSUER. A person

formed in the United States that is one of the following:

a. A subsidiary of an insured depository institution

that has been approved to issue payment stablecoins under

Section 5 of the GENIUS Act, 12 U.S.C. § 5904.

b. A nonbank entity approved by the comptroller,

pursuant to Section 5 of the GENIUS Act, 12 U.S.C. § 5904, to

issue payment stablecoins.

c. An uninsured national bank that is chartered by the

comptroller and is approved by the comptroller, pursuant to

Section 5 of the GENIUS Act, 12 U.S.C. § 5904, to issue

payment stablecoins.

d. A federal branch that is approved by the

comptroller, pursuant to Section 5 of the GENIUS Act, 12

U.S.C. § 5904, to issue payment stablecoins.

e. An entity legally established under the laws of a

state and approved to issue payment stablecoins by a state

payment stablecoin regulator, including Alabama qualified

payment stablecoin issuers.

§8-7B-3

(a) No person may issue a payment stablecoin in the

state, unless that person is a permitted payment stablecoin
Page 5

issuer.

(b) Beginning on July 18, 2028, no digital asset

service provider may offer or sell a payment stablecoin to a

person in the state, unless the payment stablecoin is issued

by a permitted payment stablecoin issuer.

(c) This section shall not apply to the following
transactions:
(1) Any direct transfer of payment stablecoin between

two individuals, each acting on his or her own behalf and for

his or her own lawful purposes, without the involvement of an

intermediary.

(2) Any transaction involving the receipt of payment

stablecoin by an individual between an account owned by the

individual in the United States and an account owned by the

individual abroad which are offered by the same parent

company.

(3) Any transaction by means of a software or hardware

wallet that facilitates an individual's own custody of payment

stablecoin.

§8-7B-4

(a)(1) Once the commission authorizes a payment

stablecoin under subsection (b), governmental entities may use

a payment stablecoin issued by a permitted payment stablecoin

issuer to make payments to vendors or contractors for

contracted goods or services.

(2) Vendors and contractors may elect to receive

payment in an authorized payment stablecoin through procedures

established pursuant to Section 8-7B-9. No vendor or
Page 6

contractor shall be required to accept payment stablecoin as

consideration.

(3) If the vendor or contractor elects to receive

payment in a payment stablecoin, the payment shall be

enforceable as satisfaction of the monetary obligations owed

by the state.

(b) The commission may recognize and authorize any

payment stablecoin that complies with the following

requirements:

(1) The payment stablecoin is issued by a permitted

payment stablecoin issuer that is incorporated and

headquartered in the United States.

(2) The permitted payment stablecoin issuer has

corporate founders and controlling shareholders who are United

States citizens.

(3) The payment stablecoin is fully backed on a

one-to-one basis by the United States dollar or short-term

United States Treasury obligations.

(4) The permitted payment stablecoin issuer maintains

reserves held in accounts with United States-chartered banks

or federally regulated custodians.

(5) The payment stablecoin is redeemable at par value
on demand by holders.

(6) The payment stablecoin is subject to quarterly

independent attestations by an accounting firm registered with

the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board.

(7) The permitted payment stablecoin issuer publishes
monthly reserve reports disclosing asset composition and
Page 7

location.

(8) The permitted payment stablecoin issuer and payment

stablecoin both operate in compliance with the GENIUS Act and

all regulations issued thereunder.

(c) The commission shall not authorize any payment
stablecoin if the payment stablecoin is:
(1) Issued by any entity that is headquartered outside
of the United States;
(2) Issued by any entity that is controlled by
individuals who are not citizens of the United States;
(3) Backed by synthetic assets, commodities, foreign
currencies, or other digital assets; or
(4) Issued by a person that is not a permitted payment
stablecoin issuer.
(d) The commission shall maintain a list of authorized

payment stablecoins under subsection (b) and shall publish the

list on the commission's website.

(e) The commission shall conduct an annual review of

all authorized stablecoins and may suspend or revoke

recognition of any token that fails to meet the requirements

in subsections (c) or (d).

(f) Before entering an agreement to pay vendors and

contractors with an authorized stablecoin under this section,

the governmental entity shall provide a disclosure to the

vendor or contractor that outlines the redemption rights and

procedures of the applicable payment stablecoin, the reserve

backing and audit requirements for payment stablecoins under

this chapter and the GENIUS Act, and the risks that are
Page 8

associated with digital asset custody and use.

§8-7B-5

(a)(1) The commission shall receive, review, and

consider for approval applications from any person that seeks

to issue or sell payment stablecoins as an Alabama qualified

payment stablecoin issuer, and the commission shall establish

a process and framework for the licensing, regulation,

examination, and supervision of such entities, through the

adoption of rules pursuant to Section 8-7B-9.

(2) The commission, upon receipt of a substantially

complete application received under subdivision (1), shall

evaluate and make a determination on each application based

only on the criteria established under this chapter, and rules

adopted pursuant to this chapter.

(b) The commission shall consider the following factors

when determining whether an applicant, who submitted a

substantially complete application, shall be licensed as an

Alabama qualified payment stablecoin issuer:

(1) The ability of the applicant, based on the

applicant's financial condition and resources, to meet the

requirements set forth under 12 U.S.C. § 5903.

(2) Whether an individual who has been convicted of a

felony offense involving insider trading, embezzlement,

cybercrime, money laundering, financing of terrorism, or

financial fraud is serving as an officer or director of the

applicant.

(3) The competence, experience, and integrity of the
officers, directors, and principal shareholders of the
Page 9

applicant, its subsidiaries, and parent company, including:

a. The record of those officers, directors, and

principal shareholders of compliance with laws and

regulations; and

b. The ability of those officers, directors, and

principal shareholders to fulfill any commitments to, and any

conditions imposed by, the commission in connection with the

application at issue and any prior applications.

(4) Whether the redemption policy of the applicant
meets the standards under 12 U.S.C. § 5903.
(5) Any other factors established under federal

regulations pursuant to the GENIUS Act or rules adopted

pursuant to this chapter which are necessary to ensure the

safety and soundness of the Alabama qualified payment

stablecoin issuer.

(c) The commission shall render a decision on a

substantially complete application submitted under subsection

(a) no later than 120 days after receipt of the application.

(d)(1) For purposes of this section an application

shall be considered substantially complete if the application

contains sufficient information for the commission to render a

decision on whether the applicant satisfies the factors

described in subsection (a).

(2) No later than 30 days after receiving any

application, the commission shall notify the applicant as to

whether the commission considers the application to be

substantially complete and, if the application is not

substantially complete, the additional information the
Page 10

applicant must provide in order for the application to be

considered substantially complete.

(3) An application considered substantially complete

under this subsection shall remain substantially complete

unless there is a material change in circumstances that

requires the commission to treat the application as a new

application.

(e)(1) The commission may only deny a substantially

complete application received if the commission determines

that the activities of the applicant would include any conduct

that would authorize the commission to suspend or revoke a

license under Section 8-7B-10(a).

(2) The issuance of a payment stablecoin on an open,

public, or decentralized network shall not be a valid ground

for denial of an application.

(f) If the commission denies a substantially complete

application received under subsection (a), the commission no

later than 30 days after the date of denial, shall provide the

applicant with written notice explaining the denial with

specificity, including all findings made by the commission

with respect to all identified material shortcomings in the

application, including actionable recommendations on how the

applicant could address the identified material shortcomings.

(g) The denial of an application under subsection (e)

shall not prohibit the applicant from filing any subsequent

application.

§8-7B-6

A provider is not required to obtain any other license
Page 11

or charter, except for the requirement under this chapter, to

perform the activities permitted in Section 8-7B-3.

§8-7B-7

No later than 180 days after the approval of an

application, and afterwards on an annual basis, each Alabama

qualified payment stablecoin issuer shall submit to the

commission a certification that the issuer has implemented

anti-money laundering and economic sanctions compliance

programs that are reasonably designed to prevent the Alabama

qualified payment stablecoin issuer from facilitating money

laundering, in particular, facilitating money laundering for

cartels and organizations designated as foreign terrorist

organizations under 8 U.S.C. § 1189 and the financing of

terrorist activities, consistent with the requirements of the

GENIUS Act.

§8-7B-8

(a) An Alabama qualified payment stablecoin issuer

shall comply with 12 U.S.C. § 5902(a) and any regulations

adopted by federal governmental entities implementing the

GENIUS Act.

(b) The commission, through the adoption of rules

pursuant to Section 8-7B-9 or other means of notice, shall

identify the federal laws and regulations applicable to

Alabama qualified payment stablecoin issuers. The commission

shall ensure that the minimum federal requirements apply to

all Alabama qualified payment stablecoin issuers in the state.

§8-7B-9

(a)(1) The commission shall adopt rules to administer
Page 12

and implement this chapter. These rules may include provisions

that govern the recovery of the cost of administering and

enforcing this chapter by imposing and collecting fees, fines,

penalties, and costs associated with applications,

examinations, investigations, and other actions required to

implement this chapter.

(2) The rules adopted under subsection (a) shall
include the following:

a. The establishment of a secure system for processing
payments made under Section 8-7B-4.

b. The technical integration of payment stablecoin
payment systems with state accounting and payment systems.

c. Security and fraud prevention measures.

d. The creation of educational material regarding the

use of payment stablecoins.
(b) The commission may conduct an examination or

investigation of an Alabama qualified payment stablecoin

issuer or otherwise take action authorized by this chapter or

by a rule adopted or order issued under this chapter as

reasonably necessary or appropriate to administer and

implement this chapter, federal regulations implementing the

GENIUS Act, and other applicable state and federal law. In

performing the examination or investigation, the commission

may:

(1) Conduct an on-site or off-site examination of the

Alabama qualified payment stablecoin issuer as the commission

may reasonably require;

(2) Conduct an examination in conjunction with other
Page 13

state agencies or federal government agencies;
(3) Accept the examination report of another state

agency or federal government agency, or a report prepared by

an independent accounting firm, which, upon being accepted by

the commission, shall be considered an official report of the

commission; and

(4) Summon and examine, under oath, individuals or

employees of an Alabama qualified payment stablecoin issuer

and require the individuals to produce records regarding any

matter related to the condition and business of the licensee

or an agent of the licensee.

(c) An Alabama qualified payment stablecoin issuer

shall provide, and the commission shall have full and complete

access to, all records the commission may reasonably require

to conduct an examination. The records must be provided at the

location and in the format specified by the commission,

provided the commission may utilize multistate record

production standards and examination procedures when such

standards will reasonably achieve the requirements of this

section.

(d) Unless otherwise directed by the commission, a

licensee shall pay all costs reasonably incurred in connection

with an examination of the licensee or the licensee's

authorized delegates.

(e) Information obtained during any examination under

this chapter may be disclosed only as prescribed in Section

8-7B-16.

(f) In the course of an examination or investigation
Page 14

under subsection (b), the commission may do any of the

following:

(1) Make such public or private investigations within

or outside of this state as it deems necessary to determine

whether: (i) any license under this chapter should be granted,

denied, suspended, or revoked; (ii) any person has violated or

is about to violate any provision of this chapter or any rule

or order issued under this chapter; or (iii) any enforcement

measures are necessary to be imposed on an Alabama qualified

payment stablecoin issuer under this chapter.

(2) Require or permit any person to file a statement in

writing, under oath, or otherwise as the commission may

determine, as to all the facts and circumstances concerning

the matter to be investigated.

(3) Publish information concerning any violation of

this chapter or any rule or order adopted or issued under this

chapter.

(4) Administer oaths and affirmations, subpoena

witnesses, compel their attendance, take evidence, and require

the production of any books, papers, correspondence,

memoranda, agreements, or other documents or records which the

commission deems relevant to the inquiry.

(g) In case of refusal to obey a subpoena, upon

application by the commission, the Circuit Court of Montgomery

County may issue an order to the person failing to obey the

subpoena requiring the individual to appear before the

commission or the officer designated by it, to produce

documentary evidence if so ordered, or to give evidence
Page 15

touching the matter under investigation or in question. The

court may hold any person who fails to obey an order of the

court in contempt of court.

(h) No person is excused from attending and testifying

or from producing any document or record before the commission

or any officer designated by it, in any proceeding instituted

by the commission, on the ground that the testimony or

evidence, documentary or otherwise, required of the person may

tend to incriminate him or her or subject him or her to a

penalty or forfeiture. No individual may be prosecuted or

subjected to any penalty or forfeiture using or based on

information he or she offered after asserting such privilege,

except that the individual so testifying shall not be exempt

from prosecution and punishment for perjury committed in so

testifying. Nothing in this section shall prohibit the

commission from prosecuting any person compelled to testify or

provide evidence, if the commission has sufficient evidence,

derived from other sources not discovered, derived, or

revealed from such compelled testimony or evidence, to sustain

a prosecution for a violation under this chapter.

(i) The commission may prescribe additional enforcement

procedures under subsection (a) to ensure compliance with the

GENIUS Act.

(j) The commission shall submit an annual report to the

Legislature which shall include the current list of authorized

payment stablecoins, the volume of transactions and cost

savings, assessment of risks and safeguards, and any

recommendations for legislative changes. The report shall be
Page 16

made publicly available on the commission's website.

(k) This chapter shall not apply to an Alabama

qualified payment stablecoin issuer to the extent that federal

law precludes or preempts or has been determined to preclude

or preempt the application of the provisions of this chapter

to any Alabama qualified payment stablecoin issuer.

(l) In addition to any other exempt positions as

otherwise allowed by law, the exempt positions in the

commission shall include up to three highly trained, highly

specialized securities professionals.

§8-7B-10

(a) The commission may suspend or revoke a license if

the Alabama qualified payment stablecoin issuer:
(1) Violates this chapter or a rule adopted or an order
issued under this chapter;
(2) Does not cooperate with an examination or
investigation by the commission;
(3) Engages in fraud, intentional misrepresentation, or
gross negligence;
(4) The competence, experience, character, or general

fitness of the issuer, person in control of an issuer, key

individual, or responsible individual of the authorized

delegate indicates that it is not in the public interest to

permit the issuer to issue a payment stablecoin;

(5) Engages in an unsafe or unsound practice; or

(6) Is insolvent, suspends payment of its obligations,

or makes a general assignment for the benefit of its

creditors.
Page 17

(b) In determining the severity of the violation, the

commission may consider the size and condition of the issuer's

payment stablecoin issuance, the magnitude of the loss, the

gravity of the violation of this chapter, and the previous

conduct of the person involved.

§8-7B-11

(a) If the commission determines that any person has

engaged in or is about to engage in any act or practice

constituting a violation of this chapter or a rule adopted or

an order issued under this chapter, the commission, in its

discretion, may do any of the following:

(1) Issue an order, with or without a prior hearing or

notice, against the person or persons engaged in the act or

practice, directing them to cease and desist from engaging in

the act or practice.

(2) Issue an order appointing a receiver or conservator
over a respondent or the respondent's assets.
(3) Order restitution or disgorgement against any

person who has violated this chapter or any rule adopted or

order issued pursuant to this chapter.

(4) Bring an action in the Circuit Court of Montgomery

County to enjoin an action or practice and to enforce

compliance with this chapter or any rule adopted or order

issued pursuant to this chapter. Upon a proper showing, the

court may issue a temporary restraining order or permanently

enjoin any unlawful act or practice.

(b) The commission shall not be required to post a bond
for any actions taken pursuant to subsection (a).
Page 18

§8-7B-12

(a) Any person aggrieved by an order or denial issued

under this chapter shall be entitled to a hearing, as

authorized for contested cases, pursuant to the Administrative

Procedure Act, Chapter 22 of Title 41, if the aggrieved

person, within 28 days after delivery of the order or denial,

submits a written request for a hearing before the commission.

The order shall disclose the right to a hearing upon written

request within 28 days after delivery of the order. If no

timely request for a hearing is made, the order shall

constitute a final order of the commission.

(b) Any appeal from any final order of the commission

shall be made to the Circuit Court of Montgomery County and

shall be governed by the provisions of the Administrative

Procedure Act, Chapter 22 of Title 41, pertaining to judicial

review.

§8-7B-13

The commission may enter into a consent order at any

time with a person to resolve a matter arising under this

chapter or a rule adopted or order issued under this chapter.

A consent order must be signed by the person to whom it is

issued or by the person's authorized representative, and must

indicate agreement with the terms contained in the order.

§8-7B-14

(a) It is unlawful for any person, in connection with

the offer, sale, or purchase of any stablecoin, directly or

indirectly, to knowingly:

(1) Employ any device, scheme, or artifice to defraud a
Page 19

person;

(2) Make any untrue statement of a material fact or to

omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the

statements made not misleading in the light of the

circumstances under which they are made; or

(3) Engage in any act, practice, or course of business

that operates or would operate as a fraud or deceit upon any

person.

(b)(1) A person that knowingly violates subsection (a),
(b), or (c) shall be guilty of a Class B felony.

(2) The limitations period for any prosecution under

this section does not commence or begin to accrue until the

discovery of the facts constituting the deception, after which

the prosecution shall be commenced within five years.

(c) A person that intentionally makes a false

statement, misrepresentation, or false certification in a

record filed or required to be maintained under this chapter

or intentionally makes a false entry or omits a material entry

in such a record is guilty of a Class C felony.

(d) A person that intentionally engages in an activity

for which a license is required under this chapter without

being licensed under this chapter and who receives more than

five thousand dollars ($5,000) in compensation within a 30-day

period from this activity is guilty of a Class C felony.

(e) A person that intentionally engages in an activity

for which a license is required under this chapter without

being licensed under this chapter and who receives five

thousand dollars ($5,000) or less in compensation within a
Page 20

30-day period from this activity is guilty of a Class D

felony.

(f) The enforcement of this chapter shall be vested in

the commission. It is the duty of the commission to enforce

this chapter and to investigate, prevent, and detect

violations of this chapter. The commission is vested with the

rights, privileges, and powers conferred by law upon district

attorneys, including the power to appear before grand juries

and to interrogate witnesses before such grand jury. A

district attorney may empower the commission to proceed on his

or her behalf in any proceeding under this chapter.

(g) In any proceeding under this chapter, intent or

knowledge need not be alleged and proved in prosecutions of

violations involving unlicensed issuers.

(h) A proceeding under this chapter shall not preempt

or foreclose any criminal action or liability which may arise

under any other criminal provision.

§8-7B-15

(a) The commission may assess a civil penalty against a

person that violates this chapter or a rule adopted or an

order issued under this chapter in an amount not to exceed one

hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) per day for each day the

violation is outstanding, plus the state's costs and expenses

for the investigation and prosecution of the matter, including

reasonable attorney fees. All assessments collected under this

section shall be deposited in the State General Fund.

(b) The commission may assess an administrative charge
for the actual cost of any investigation resulting from any
Page 21

violation of this chapter, a violation of any rule or order

issued under this chapter, or the cost of any examination made

by the commission pursuant to this chapter, to the person or

persons subject to the investigation or examination. All

charges assessed for costs shall be deposited in the Alabama

Securities Commission Fund in the State Treasury to be drawn

upon by the commission for its use in the administration of

this chapter.

(c) For the purposes of determining the amount or

extent of an administrative assessment, if any, to be imposed

under this section, the commission shall consider among other

factors, the frequency, persistence, and willfulness of the

conduct constituting a violation of any provision of this

chapter or any rule or order issued under this chapter, and

the number of persons adversely affected by the conduct.

(d) The administrative assessment under this section is

in addition to any other penalty, remedy, or sanction that may

be imposed under this chapter.

§8-7B-16

(a) Except as otherwise provided in subsection (b), all

information or reports obtained by the commission from the

applicant, licensee, or authorized delegate and all

information contained in or related to examination,

investigation, operation, or condition reports prepared by, or

on behalf of, or for the use of the commission, are

confidential and are not subject to disclosure under Article 3

of Chapter 12, Title 36.

(b) The commission may disclose information not
Page 22

otherwise subject to disclosure under subsection (a) to

representatives of state and federal agencies, provided the

agencies submit an undertaking to maintain the confidentiality

of the information in a record.

(c) This section shall not prohibit the commission from

disclosing to the public a list of persons licensed under this

chapter or the aggregated financial data concerning those

licensees.

§8-7B-17

In any insolvency proceeding of an Alabama qualified

payment stablecoin issuer, including any insolvency proceeding

administered by the commission, the following shall apply:

(1) The claim of a person holding any payment

stablecoin issued by the Alabama qualified payment stablecoin

issuer shall have priority, on a ratable basis with the claims

of other persons holding the payment stablecoin, over the

claims of the Alabama qualified payment stablecoin issuer and

any other holder of claims against the Alabama qualified

payment stablecoin issuer, with respect to required payment

stablecoin reserves.

(2) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any

person holding a payment stablecoin issued by the Alabama

qualified payment stablecoin issuer shall be deemed to hold a

claim.

(3) The priority under subdivision (1) shall not apply

to claims other than those arising directly from the holding

of payment stablecoins.

Section 2. This act shall become effective on October
Page 23

1, 2026.

Page 24
