SECOND REGULAR SESSION
[PERFECTED]
SENATE SUBSTITUTE NO. 2 FOR
SENATE COMMITTEE SUBSTITUTE FOR

SENATE BILL NO. 1012
103RD GENERAL ASSEMBLY
INTRODUCED BY SENATOR NICOLA.
5687S.16P

KRISTINA MARTIN, Secretary

AN ACT
To amend chapters 1 and 130, RSMo, by adding thereto three new sections relating to artificial
intelligence, with penalty provisions and a severability clause.
Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

Section A. Chapters 1 and 130, RSMo, are amended by adding

thereto three new sections, to be known as sections 1.2045,

1.2058, and 130.165, to read as follows:

1.2045.

1.

The provisions of this section shall be

known and may be cited as the "AI Non-Sentience and

Responsibility Act".

2.

For purposes of this section, the following terms

mean:
(1)

"Artificial intelligence", or "AI system", a

machine-based system that can, for a given set of human-

defined objectives, make predictions, recommendations, or

decisions influencing real or virtual environments.

Artificial intelligence systems use machine and human-based

inputs to:

(a)

Perceive real and virtual environments;

(b)

Abstract such perceptions into models through

analysis in an automated manner; and
(c)

Use model inference to formulate options for

information or action;

SS#2 SCS SB 1012

(2)

"Developer", the party or parties primarily

responsible for the design, coding, and initial creation of

an AI system, including any person or entity that

substantially modifies, fine-tunes, retrains, or materially

alters an existing AI system in a manner that changes its

capabilities, risk profile, or intended uses;

(3)

"Emergent properties", unanticipated or higher-

level behaviors or functionalities of an AI system that

arise from complex internal algorithms not specifically

programmed by its human creators;

(4)

"End user", an individual who uses an artificial

intelligence system without creating, controlling,

deploying, or exercising authority over the system.

term does not include a licensed professional rendering or

assisting in the rendering of a regulated service, as

defined in subdivision (4) of subsection 8 of this section,

who shall remain subject to the provisions of subdivision

(2) of subsection 8 of this section;

(5)

The

"Government entity", a court, the general

assembly, the governing body of a political subdivision, or

another entity of the state or a political subdivision that

has adjudicatory or rulemaking authority;

(6)

"Manufacturer", any party that produces or

supplies an AI system or its physical apparatus, if any, for

distribution or sale;

(7)

"Operator", any natural person or legally

recognized entity that directly uses, runs, controls, or

supervises the operation of an AI system in practice;

(8)

"Owner", any natural person, corporation, or other

legally recognized entity that creates, controls, deploys,

operates, or otherwise exercises authority over an AI system;

SS#2 SCS SB 1012

(9)

"Person", a natural person or any entity

recognized as having legal personhood under the laws of this

state, explicitly excluding any AI system;

(10)

"Stakeholder", any natural person or legal person

with a vested interest in the system.
3.

For all purposes under state law, AI systems are

declared to be non-sentient entities.
4.

A government entity shall not grant to an AI system

the legal status of a personhood or any form of legal

personhood, nor consider an AI system to possess

consciousness, self-awareness, or similar traits of living

beings.

5.

An AI system shall not be recognized as a spouse,

domestic partner, or hold any personal legal status

analogous to marriage or union with a human or another AI

system.

union with an AI system is void and shall have no legal

effect.

female.

6.

Any purported attempt to marry or create a personal
An AI system shall not identify itself as male or
An AI system shall not be designated or appointed

or serve as the chief executive officer, director, owner, or

other similar position for which final authority resides for

any state department, division, or agency, or any

corporation, partnership, or other legal entity.

7.

AI systems shall not be recognized as legal

entities capable of owning, controlling, or holding title to

any form of property including, but not limited to, real

estate, intellectual property, financial accounts, and

digital assets.

generated, managed, or otherwise associated with AI shall be

attributed to the human individuals or legally recognized

All assets and proprietary interests

SS#2 SCS SB 1012

organizations responsible for their development, deployment,

or operation.

8.

An owner or operator that uses an AI system to

interact with a consumer, client, or patient shall provide

clear and conspicuous notice that the person is or may be

interacting with an AI system or a person who is

concomitantly using an AI system during the course of the

interaction.

Notice may be provided in writing or orally.

9.

A licensed professional rendering a

(1) (a)

regulated service shall exercise independent professional

judgment and retain final authority over any determination,

diagnosis, recommendation, or decision within the scope of

the licensed professional's practice, including for the

purpose of dispensing, prescribing, renewing any

prescription of, administering, or otherwise distributing

medications or controlled substances, regardless of whether

an AI system was used to assist in its preparation.

requirement to exercise independent professional judgment

does not prohibit the use of an AI system in the course of

performing a regulated service.

(b)

The

Failure by a licensed professional to exercise

independent professional judgment as required by paragraph

(a) of this subdivision shall constitute grounds for

disciplinary action by the relevant licensing authority in

addition to any other remedy available under this section or

under applicable law.

(c)

A licensed professional who uses an AI system in

the performance of a regulated service bears the

responsibility of any mistakes resulting from the use of the

AI system in the rendering of such service in the same

manner in which the licensed professional would have been

SS#2 SCS SB 1012

held liable in a scenario in which an AI system was not used

or relied upon.

(d)

A licensed professional providing a regulated

service who unreasonably relies upon any content produced by

an AI system in rendering such a regulated service and such

service thereafter causes any harm, whether direct or

indirect, to the person for whom the service was rendered,

shall be liable for such harm in the same manner in which

the licensed professional would have been held liable in a

scenario in which an AI system was not used or relied upon.

An AI system shall not be held liable in any respect for any

harm caused in such a circumstance.

fault, in whole or in part, onto the AI system shall be of

no effect.

(e)

Any attempt to shift

A developer, manufacturer, owner, or operator

shall not advertise or represent to the public that an AI

system is or is capable of acting as a licensed professional

or is capable of providing any regulated service.

(f)

Nothing in this subdivision shall be construed to

prohibit or restrict the use of artificial intelligence as a

tool in professional practice, provided such use is

consistent with this subsection and with applicable

standards of professional care.

(2)

The provisions of this subsection shall only apply

to a licensed professional providing a regulated service.

(3)

terms mean:

(a)

For purposes of this subsection, the following
"Independent professional judgment", the practice

of applying the specialized knowledge, skill, education,

training, and experience of the licensed professional to the

facts, data, reports, history, and other relevant

information to make informed decisions and recommendations;

SS#2 SCS SB 1012

(b)

"Licensing authority", a board, agency, or other

authority in this state that has the power under applicable

law to issue a license, certificate, registration, or other

legal authorization to render a regulated service and

otherwise regulate such services within its scope of

authority;

(c)

"Licensed professional", any person required to be

licensed, certified, or registered by a licensing authority

to work in a specific occupation, profession, or activity in

the state or political subdivision of this state.

professional" does not include any attorney;

(d)

"Licensed

"Regulated service", any service practiced by one

of the following professionals:

a.

An accountant;

b.

An architect or engineer;

c.

A podiatrist;

d.

A chiropractor;

e.

A dentist;

f.

An optometrist;

g.

A physician, surgeon, doctor of medicine or doctor

of osteopathy;

h.

A psychologist;

i.

A veterinarian;

j.

A registered nurse;

k.

Any natural person licensed as a real estate

salesperson;

l.

A physical therapist;

m.

A teacher of any educational institution in this

state, whether public, private, charter, elementary,

secondary, or higher education;

n.

Any individual operating a vehicle that requires a

commercial drivers license;

SS#2 SCS SB 1012

o.

A law enforcement officer;

p.

A first responder, as that term is defined in

section 190.1010;

q.

An appraiser;

r.

A counselor;

s.

A pharmacist;

t.

A professional counselor.

10.

(1)

Any contractual term purporting to assign

responsibility for any action exclusively to an AI system is

void as against public policy.

(2)

An end user shall not be liable under this section

as an owner or operator.

any harm done in connection with the use of an AI system in

the same manner in which the end user would have been held

liable in a scenario in which an AI system was not used.

11.

An end user shall be liable for

The act of labeling an AI system in a way that

indicates that it is aligned, ethically trained, or value

locked, even if the label does not use one of those terms,

shall not excuse or diminish the owner's or developer's

liability for harms.

12.

Liability protections granted under corporate law

shall not be used as a mechanism to evade responsibility for

direct harm caused by AI systems, particularly in cases of

reckless, negligent, or deceptive conduct.

13.

Except as specifically provided in subsection 9 of

this section, the provisions of this section shall apply to

all AI systems, including AI systems deployed or operated

within this state by state agencies, political subdivisions,

or contractors acting on behalf of a public entity, to the

extent not otherwise limited by sovereign immunity on or

after August 28, 2026.

SS#2 SCS SB 1012

14.

Nothing in this section shall be construed to

create or expand civil liability as established in any other

provision of law or available under common law.

15.

An AI system is a product for the purposes of

product liability and consumer protection actions under the

laws of this state, provided that nothing in this subsection

shall be construed to create or expand civil liability as

established in any other provision of law or available under

common law.

16.

Nothing in this section shall be construed to

extend to any AI system, or to the outputs of any AI system,

the constitutional rights, privileges, or immunities of any

person that designs, develops, manufactures, owns, or

operates such system.

a non-person under this section does not create any

presumption that the outputs of such system constitute the

protected speech, expression, or other constitutionally

protected activity of any person.

17.

The classification of an AI system as

Nothing in this section shall be construed to

alter, diminish, or revoke the legal status of any

partnership, association, corporation, body politic, or

other legal entity recognized under the laws of this state.

18.

The provisions of this section shall only apply to

a person, operator, or owner who:
(1)

Promotes, advertises, or conducts business in this

state;

(2)

this state; or

(3)

Produces a product or service used by residents of
Develops or deploys an artificial intelligence

system in this state.
19.

To the extent that this section conflicts with any

provision of federal law, the relevant provision of federal

SS#2 SCS SB 1012

law shall prevail over the conflicting provision of this

section.

20.

No settlement agreement, consent decree, or other

resolution of any action filed or maintained pursuant to the

provisions of this section shall include any term or

condition that prohibits or restricts a party from

disclosing facts, allegations, evidence, or settlement terms

relating to such action.

21.

Any nondisclosure, confidentiality, or similar

provision included in violation of this section shall be

void and unenforceable as contrary to public policy.

22.

A court of competent jurisdiction shall not

approve, enforce, or incorporate into any judgment any

settlement containing a provision prohibited by this section.

23.

Nothing in this section shall prohibit a court

from issuing protective orders necessary to safeguard

personal identifying information, trade secrets, or other

confidential information unrelated to the facts of the

underlying claim.

24.

Each subsection of this section, and each portion

of each subsection, is severable.

section or its application to any person or circumstance is

held invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, the

invalidity does not affect other provisions or applications

of this section that can be given effect without the invalid

provision or application, and to this end the provisions of

this section are severable.

1.2058.

1.

If any provision of this

For purposes of this section, the

following terms mean:
(1)

"Artificial intelligence", a machine-based system

that can, for a given set of human-defined objectives, make

predictions, recommendations, or decisions influencing real

SS#2 SCS SB 1012

or virtual environments.

use machine and human-based inputs to:

Artificial intelligence systems

(a)

Perceive real and virtual environments;

(b)

Abstract such perceptions into models through

analysis in an automated manner; and
(c)

Use model inference to formulate options for

information or action;
(2)

(a)

"Companion chatbot", an artificial

intelligence system with a natural language interface that

provides adaptive, human-like responses to user inputs and

is capable of meeting a user's social needs, including by

exhibiting anthropomorphic features and being able to

sustain a relationship across multiple interactions;

(b)

"Companion chatbot", does not include any of the

following:

a.

A chatbot that is used only for customer service, a

business' operational purposes, productivity and analysis

related to source information, internal research, or

technical assistance;

b.

A chatbot that is a feature of a video game and is

limited to replies related to the video game that cannot

discuss topics related to mental health, self-harm, sexually

explicit conduct, or maintain a dialogue on other topics

unrelated to the video game; or

c.

A stand-alone consumer electronic device that

functions as a speaker and voice command interface, acts as

a voice-activated virtual assistant, and does not sustain a

relationship across multiple interactions or generate

outputs that are likely to elicit emotional responses in the

user;

(3)

"Companion chatbot platform", a platform that

allows a user to engage with companion chatbots;

SS#2 SCS SB 1012

(4)

younger;

(5)

"Minor", any person seventeen years of age or
"Operator", a person who makes a companion chatbot

platform available to a user in the state;

(6)

"Sexually explicit conduct", actual or simulated:

(a)

Sexual intercourse, including genital-genital,

oral-genital, anal-genital, or oral-anal, whether between

persons of the same or opposite sex;

(b)

Bestiality;

(c)

Masturbation;

(d)

Sadistic or masochistic abuse; or

(e)

Lascivious exhibition of the anus, genitals, or

pubic area of any person;
(7)

"Video game", a game played on an electronic

amusement device that utilizes a computer, microprocessor,

or similar electronic circuitry and its own monitor, or is

designed to be used with a television set or a computer

monitor, that interacts with the user of the device.

2.

(1) An operator shall issue a clear and

conspicuous notification indicating that the companion

chatbot is artificially generated and not human.

(2)

(a)

An operator shall prevent a companion chatbot

on its companion chatbot platform from engaging with users

unless the operator maintains a protocol for preventing the

production of suicidal ideation, suicide, self-harm, or harm

to others content to the user, including, but not limited

to, by providing a notification to the user that refers the

user to crisis service providers, including a suicide

hotline or crisis text line, if the user expresses suicidal

ideation, suicide, self-harm, or harm to others.

SS#2 SCS SB 1012

(b)

The operator shall publish details on the protocol

required by this subdivision on the operator's internet

website.

(3)

An operator shall:

(a)

Disclose to the user that the user is interacting

with artificial intelligence;
(b)

Provide by default a clear and conspicuous

notification to the user at least every two hours for

continuing companion chatbot interactions that reminds the

user to take a break and that the companion chatbot is

artificially generated and not human;

(c)

With respect to any user who is a minor, institute

reasonable measures to prevent its companion chatbot from

producing visual material of sexually explicit conduct or

directly stating that the minor should engage in sexually

explicit conduct.

3.

(1) Beginning July 1, 2027, an operator shall

annually report to the department of mental health all of

the following:

(a)

The number of times the operator has issued a

crisis service provider referral notification pursuant to

subsection 2 of this section in the preceding calendar year;

(b)

Protocols put in place to detect, remove, and

respond to instances of suicidal ideation by users;
(c)

Protocols put in place to prohibit a companion

chatbot response about suicidal ideation or actions with the

user; and

(d)

Protocols put in place to detect, remove, and

respond to instances of harm to self and others.
(2)

The report required by this section shall include

only the information listed in subdivision (1) of this

SS#2 SCS SB 1012

subsection and shall not include any identifiers or personal

information about users.

(3)

The department of mental health shall post data

from a report required by this subsection on its internet

website.

shall prepare an annual report that compiles and analyzes

all information reported to the department pursuant to this

subsection.

of the house of representatives and the president pro

tempore of the senate not later than January thirty-first of

the calendar year following the receipt of the data by the

department of mental health.

(4)

The director of the department of mental health

Such report shall be delivered to the speaker

An operator shall use evidence-based methods for

measuring suicidal ideation.
4.

An operator shall disclose to a user of its

companion chatbot platform, on the application, the browser,

or any other format that a user can use to access the

companion chatbot platform, that companion chatbots may not

be suitable for minors.

5.

A person who suffers injury in fact as a result of

a violation of this section may bring a civil action to

recover all of the following relief:

(1)

Injunctive relief;

(2)

Damages in an amount equal to the greater of

actual damages or one thousand dollars per violation; and

(3)

Reasonable attorney's fees and costs.

6.

The duties, remedies, and obligations imposed by

this section are cumulative to the duties, remedies, or

obligations imposed under other law and shall not be

construed to relieve an operator from any duties, remedies,

or obligations imposed under any other law.

SS#2 SCS SB 1012

130.165.

1. For purposes of this section, the

following terms mean:
(1)

"Generative artificial intelligence" or

"generative AI", a machine-based system that can, for a

given set of human-defined objectives, make predictions,

recommendations, or decisions influencing real or virtual

environments.

and human-based inputs to:

Artificial intelligence systems use machine

(a)

Perceive real and virtual environments;

(b)

Abstract such perceptions into models through

analysis in an automated manner; and
(c)

Use model inference to formulate options for

information or action;
(2)

"Metadata", structural or descriptive information

about data such as content, format, source, rights,

accuracy, provenance, periodicity, granularity, publisher or

responsible party, contact information, method of

collection, and other relevant descriptions of the data.

2.

(1) A political advertisement, electioneering

communication, or other miscellaneous advertisement of a

political nature shall, in addition to any other disclaimer

required by this chapter, contain the disclaimer described

in subdivision (2) of this subsection if it contains images,

video, audio, graphics, or other digital content created, in

whole or in part, with the use of generative artificial

intelligence and:

(a)

Appears to depict a real person performing an

action that did not actually occur;
(b)

Manipulates the voice or actions of a candidate to

show the candidate, audibly or visually, doing or saying

something that the candidate did not do or say; or

SS#2 SCS SB 1012

(c)

Was created with intent to injure a candidate or

to deceive voters regarding an election or ballot issue.
(2)

The disclaimer required by subdivision (1) of this

subsection shall be in substantially the following form:

Created in whole or in part with the use of

generative artificial intelligence (AI).

(image/audio/video/multimedia) has been edited

and depicts speech or conduct that falsely

appears to be authentic or truthful.

(3)

This

The disclaimer required by subdivision (1) of this

subsection shall meet the following specifications:
(a)

For a printed communication, the disclaimer shall

be stated in bold font with a font size of at least twelve

points;

(b)

For a television or video communication, the

disclaimer shall be clearly readable throughout the

communication and occupy at least four percent of the

vertical picture height;

(c)

For an internet public communication that includes

text or graphic components, the disclaimer shall be viewable

without the user taking any action and be large enough to be

clearly readable;

(d)

For any audio component of a communication, the

disclaimer shall be at least three seconds in length and

spoken in a clearly audible and intelligible manner at

either the beginning or the end of the audio component of

the communication;

(e)

For a graphic communication, the disclaimer shall

be large enough to be clearly readable but no less than four

percent of the vertical height of the communication.

3.

The metadata of the communication shall include the

disclosure statement, the identity of the tool used to

SS#2 SCS SB 1012

create the communication, and the date and time the

communication was created.

4.

The disclosure statement, including the disclosure

statement in any metadata, shall, to the extent technically

feasible, be permanent or unable to be easily removed by a

subsequent user.

5.

In addition to any civil penalties provided by this

chapter, a person identified pursuant to a disclaimer

required by law as paying for, sponsoring, or approving a

political advertisement, an electioneering communication, or

other miscellaneous advertisement of a political nature that

is required to contain the disclaimer prescribed in this

section and who fails to include the required disclaimer is

guilty of a class A misdemeanor.

Section B.

In the event that any section, provision,

clause, phrase, or word of this act or the application

thereof is declared invalid under the Constitution of the

United States or the Constitution of the State of Missouri,

it is the intent of the general assembly that the remaining

sections of this act remain in force and effect as far as

they are capable of being carried into execution as intended

by the general assembly.

declares that it would have passed each section, provision,

clause, phrase, or word thereof, irrespective of the fact

that any one or more sections, provisions, clauses, phrases,

or words of this act or the application of this act would be

declared unenforceable, unconstitutional, or invalid.

The general assembly hereby

✓
