SECOND REGULAR SESSION
[TRULY AGREED TO AND FINALLY PASSED]
HOUSE COMMITTEE SUBSTITUTE FOR
SENATE SUBSTITUTE FOR
SENATE COMMITTEE SUBSTITUTE FOR

SENATE BILL NO. 878
103RD GENERAL ASSEMBLY
5598H.07T

AN ACT
To repeal sections 195.417, 338.010, 338.012, and 579.060, RSMo, and to enact in lieu thereof ten
new sections relating to pharmaceutical drugs and devices, with penalty provisions.
Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

Section

A.

Sections

195.417,

338.010,

338.012,

and

579.060, RSMo, are repealed and ten new sections enacted in

lieu thereof, to be known as sections 195.417, 338.010, 338.012,

338.206, 338.208, 338.312, 376.417, 376.1280, 376.1960, and

579.060, to read as follows:

195.417.

1. The limits specified in this section

shall not apply to any quantity of such product, mixture, or

preparation which must be dispensed, sold, or distributed in

a pharmacy pursuant to a valid prescription.

2. Within any thirty-day period, no person shall sell,

dispense, or otherwise provide to the same individual, and

no person shall purchase, receive, or otherwise acquire more

than the following amount:

drug product containing any detectable amount of ephedrine,

phenylpropanolamine, or pseudoephedrine, or any of their

salts or optical isomers, or salts of optical isomers,

either as:

any number of packages of any

EXPLANATION-Matter enclosed in bold-faced brackets [thus] in this bill is not enacted
and is intended to be omitted in the law.

(1) The sole active ingredient; or

(2) One of the active ingredients of a combination

drug; or
(3) A combination of any of the products specified in

subdivisions (1) and (2) of this subsection;

in any total amount greater than seven and two-tenths grams,

without regard to the number of transactions.

3. Within any twenty-four-hour period, no pharmacist,

intern pharmacist, or registered pharmacy technician shall

sell, dispense, or otherwise provide to the same individual,

and no person shall purchase, receive, or otherwise acquire

more than the following amount:

any drug product containing any detectable amount of

ephedrine, phenylpropanolamine, or pseudoephedrine, or any

of their salts or optical isomers, or salts of optical

isomers, either as:

any number of packages of

(1) The sole active ingredient; or

(2) One of the active ingredients of a combination

drug; or
(3) A combination of any of the products specified in

subdivisions (1) and (2) of this subsection;

in any total amount greater than three and six-tenths grams

without regard to the number of transactions.

4. Within any twelve-month period, no person shall

sell, dispense, or otherwise provide to the same individual,

and no person shall purchase, receive, or otherwise acquire

more than the following amount:

any drug product containing any detectable amount of

ephedrine, phenylpropanolamine, or pseudoephedrine, or any

any number of packages of

of their salts or optical isomers, or salts of optical

isomers, either as:

(1) The sole active ingredient; or

(2) One of the active ingredients of a combination

drug; or
(3) A combination of any of the products specified in

subdivisions (1) and (2) of this subsection;

in any total amount greater than [forty-three] sixty-one and

two-tenths grams, without regard to the number of

transactions.

5. All packages of any compound, mixture, or

preparation containing any detectable quantity of ephedrine,

phenylpropanolamine, or pseudoephedrine, or any of their

salts or optical isomers, or salts of optical isomers,

except those that are excluded from Schedule V in subsection

or 18 of section 195.017, shall be offered for sale only

from behind a pharmacy counter where the public is not

permitted, and only by a registered pharmacist or registered

pharmacy technician under section 195.017.

6. Each pharmacy shall submit information regarding

sales of any compound, mixture, or preparation as specified

in this section in accordance with transmission methods and

frequency established by the department by regulation.

7. (1)

As used in this subsection, "administrator of

the real-time electronic pseudoephedrine tracking system"

means the entity responsible for developing, implementing,

and maintaining the data collection system described in 19

CSR 30-1.074 or any successor regulation.

(2)

Beginning October 1, 2026, and continuing

thereafter, any manufacturer of any compound, mixture, or

preparation specified in this section that is sold in or

into the state shall, on a monthly basis, pay fees to the

administrator of the real-time electronic pseudoephedrine

tracking system.

(3)

The administrator of the real-time electronic

pseudoephedrine tracking system shall be responsible for

setting the fee levels required under this subsection.

(4)

Upon the request of the department of health and

senior services, any manufacturer required to pay fees under

this subsection shall provide written documentation

demonstrating that the manufacturer has paid such fees.

(5)

The fees required under this subsection shall be

assessed against each manufacturer solely on the basis of

sales transactions involving that manufacturer's own

compounds, mixtures, or preparations sold in or into the

state.

transactions attributable to the compounds, mixtures, or

preparations of any other manufacturer.

No manufacturer shall be assessed fees based upon

8. No prescription shall be required for the

dispensation, sale, or distribution of any drug product

containing any detectable amount of ephedrine,

phenylpropanolamine, or pseudoephedrine, or any of their

salts or optical isomers, or salts of optical isomers, in an

amount within the limits described in subsections 2, 3, and

of this section.

highway patrol shall report to the revisor of statutes and

the general assembly by February first when the statewide

number of methamphetamine laboratory seizure incidents

exceeds three hundred incidents in the previous calendar

year. The provisions of this subsection shall expire on

April first of the calendar year in which the revisor of

statutes receives such notification.

The superintendent of the Missouri state

[8.] 9. This section shall supersede and preempt any

local ordinances or regulations, including any ordinances or

regulations enacted by any political subdivision of the

state. This section shall not apply to the sale of any

animal feed products containing ephedrine or any naturally

occurring or herbal ephedra or extract of ephedra.

[9.] 10.

Any local ordinances or regulations enacted

by any political subdivision of the state prior to August

28, 2020, requiring a prescription for the dispensation,

sale, or distribution of any drug product containing any

detectable amount of ephedrine, phenylpropanolamine, or

pseudoephedrine, or any of their salts or optical isomers,

or salts of optical isomers, in an amount within the limits

described in subsections 2, 3, and 4 of this section shall

be void and of no effect and no such political subdivision

shall maintain or enforce such ordinance or regulation.

[10.] 11.

All logs, records, documents, and electronic

information maintained for the dispensing of these products

shall be open for inspection and copying by municipal,

county, and state or federal law enforcement officers whose

duty it is to enforce the controlled substances laws of this

state or the United States.

[11.] 12.

All persons who dispense or offer for sale

pseudoephedrine and ephedrine products, except those that

are excluded from Schedule V in subsection 17 or 18 of

section 195.017, shall ensure that all such products are

located only behind a pharmacy counter where the public is

not permitted.

[12.] 13.

The penalty for a knowing or reckless

violation of this section is found in section 579.060.
338.010.

1. The "practice of pharmacy" includes:

(1) The interpretation, implementation, and evaluation

of medical prescription orders, including any legend drugs

under 21 U.S.C. Section 353, and the receipt, transmission,

or handling of such orders or facilitating the dispensing of

such orders;

(2) The designing, initiating, implementing, and

monitoring of a medication therapeutic plan in accordance

with the provisions of this section;

(3) The compounding, dispensing, labeling, and

administration of drugs and devices pursuant to medical

prescription orders;

(4) The ordering and administration of vaccines

approved or authorized by the U.S. Food and Drug

Administration, as of January 1, 2026, or thereafter,

excluding vaccines for cholera, monkeypox, Japanese

encephalitis, typhoid, rabies, yellow fever, tick-borne

encephalitis, anthrax, tuberculosis, dengue, Hib, polio,

rotavirus, smallpox, [and any vaccine approved after January

1, 2023] or any vaccine that is not jointly included by

joint rules promulgated by the board of pharmacy and the

state board of registration for the healing arts for

vaccines approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration

after January 1, 2026, to persons at least seven years of

age or the age recommended by the Centers for Disease

Control and Prevention, whichever is older, pursuant to

joint promulgation of rules established by the board of

pharmacy and the state board of registration for the healing

arts unless rules are established under a state of emergency

as described in section 44.100;

(5) The participation in drug selection according to
state law and participation in drug utilization reviews;

(6) The proper and safe storage of drugs and devices
and the maintenance of proper records thereof;
(7) Consultation with patients and other health care

practitioners, and veterinarians and their clients about

legend drugs, about the safe and effective use of drugs and

devices;

(8) The prescribing and dispensing of any nicotine
replacement therapy product under section 338.665;
(9) The dispensing of HIV postexposure prophylaxis
pursuant to section 338.730; and
(10) The offering or performing of those acts,

services, operations, or transactions necessary in the

conduct, operation, management and control of a pharmacy.

2. No person shall engage in the practice of pharmacy

unless he or she is licensed under the provisions of this

chapter.

3. This chapter shall not be construed to prohibit the

use of auxiliary personnel under the direct supervision of a

pharmacist from assisting the pharmacist in any of his or

her duties. This assistance in no way is intended to

relieve the pharmacist from his or her responsibilities for

compliance with this chapter and he or she will be

responsible for the actions of the auxiliary personnel

acting in his or her assistance.

4. This chapter shall not be construed to prohibit or

interfere with any legally registered practitioner of

medicine, dentistry, or podiatry, or veterinary medicine

only for use in animals, or the practice of optometry in

accordance with and as provided in sections 195.070 and

336.220 in the compounding, administering, prescribing, or

dispensing of his or her own prescriptions.

5. A pharmacist with a certificate of medication

therapeutic plan authority may provide medication therapy

services pursuant to a written protocol from a physician

licensed under chapter 334 to patients who have established

a physician-patient relationship, as described in

subdivision (1) of subsection 1 of section 191.1146, with

the protocol physician.

this section shall come only from the physician and shall

not come from a nurse engaged in a collaborative practice

arrangement under section 334.104, or from a physician

assistant engaged in a collaborative practice arrangement

under section 334.735.

The written protocol authorized by

6. Nothing in this section shall be construed as to

prevent any person, firm or corporation from owning a

pharmacy regulated by sections 338.210 to 338.315, provided

that a licensed pharmacist is in charge of such pharmacy.

7. Nothing in this section shall be construed to apply

to or interfere with the sale of nonprescription drugs and

the ordinary household remedies and such drugs or medicines

as are normally sold by those engaged in the sale of general

merchandise.

8. No health carrier as defined in chapter 376 shall

require any physician with which they contract to enter into

a written protocol with a pharmacist for medication

therapeutic services.

9. This section shall not be construed to allow a

pharmacist to diagnose or independently prescribe

pharmaceuticals.

10. The state board of registration for the healing

arts, under section 334.125, and the state board of

pharmacy, under section 338.140, shall jointly promulgate

rules regulating the use of protocols for medication therapy

services. Such rules shall require protocols to include

provisions allowing for timely communication between the

pharmacist and the protocol physician or similar body

authorized by this section, and any other patient protection

provisions deemed appropriate by both boards.

take effect, such rules shall be approved by a majority vote

of a quorum of each board.

promulgate rules regulating the use of protocols for

medication therapy services.

as that term is defined in section 536.010, that is created

under the authority delegated in this section shall become

effective only if it complies with and is subject to all of

the provisions of chapter 536 and, if applicable, section

536.028. This section and chapter 536 are nonseverable and

if any of the powers vested with the general assembly

pursuant to chapter 536 to review, to delay the effective

date, or to disapprove and annul a rule are subsequently

held unconstitutional, then the grant of rulemaking

authority and any rule proposed or adopted after August 28,

2007, shall be invalid and void.

In order to

Neither board shall separately
Any rule or portion of a rule,

11. The state board of pharmacy may grant a

certificate of medication therapeutic plan authority to a

licensed pharmacist who submits proof of successful

completion of a board-approved course of academic clinical

study beyond a bachelor of science in pharmacy, including

but not limited to clinical assessment skills, from a

nationally accredited college or university, or a

certification of equivalence issued by a nationally

recognized professional organization and approved by the

board of pharmacy.

12. Any pharmacist who has received a certificate of
medication therapeutic plan authority may engage in the

designing, initiating, implementing, and monitoring of a

medication therapeutic plan as defined by a written protocol

from a physician that may be specific to each patient for

care by a pharmacist.

13. Nothing in this section shall be construed to

allow a pharmacist to make a therapeutic substitution of a

pharmaceutical prescribed by a physician unless authorized

by the written protocol or the physician's prescription

order.

14. "Veterinarian", "doctor of veterinary medicine",

"practitioner of veterinary medicine", "DVM", "VMD", "BVSe",

"BVMS", "BSe (Vet Science)", "VMB", "MRCVS", or an

equivalent title means a person who has received a doctor's

degree in veterinary medicine from an accredited school of

veterinary medicine or holds an Educational Commission for

Foreign Veterinary Graduates (EDFVG) certificate issued by

the American Veterinary Medical Association (AVMA).

15. In addition to other requirements established by

the joint promulgation of rules by the board of pharmacy and

the state board of registration for the healing arts:

(1) A pharmacist shall administer vaccines by protocol

in accordance with treatment guidelines established by the

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC);

(2) A pharmacist who is administering a vaccine shall

request a patient to remain in the pharmacy a safe amount of

time after administering the vaccine to observe any adverse

reactions. Such pharmacist shall have adopted emergency

treatment protocols.

16. In addition to other requirements by the board, a

pharmacist shall receive additional training as required by

the board and evidenced by receiving a certificate from the

board upon completion, and shall display the certification

in his or her pharmacy where vaccines are delivered.

17. A pharmacist shall inform the patient that the

administration of a vaccine will be entered into the

ShowMeVax system, as administered by the department of

health and senior services.

inclusion of such information in the system by signing a

form provided by the pharmacist.

that he or she does not want such information entered into

the ShowMeVax system, the pharmacist shall provide a written

report within fourteen days of administration of a vaccine

to the patient's health care provider, if provided by the

patient, containing:

The patient shall attest to the
If the patient indicates

(1) The identity of the patient;

(2) The identity of the vaccine or vaccines

administered;

(3) The route of administration;

(4) The anatomic site of the administration;

(5) The dose administered; and

(6) The date of administration.

18. A pharmacist licensed under this chapter may order

and administer vaccines approved or authorized by the U.S.

Food and Drug Administration to address a public health

need, as lawfully authorized by the state or federal

government, or a department or agency thereof, during a

state or federally declared public health emergency.

338.012.

1. A pharmacist with a certificate of

medication therapeutic plan authority may provide influenza,

group A streptococcus, and COVID-19 medication therapy

services pursuant to [a statewide standing order issued by

the director or chief medical officer of the department of

health and senior services if that person is a licensed

physician, or a licensed physician designated by the

department of health and senior services] rules established

by the board of pharmacy and the state board of registration

for the healing arts, as described in this section.

2. This section shall not be construed to allow a

pharmacist to diagnose or independently prescribe

pharmaceuticals.

3. The state board of registration for the healing

arts, pursuant to section 334.125, and the state board of

pharmacy, pursuant to section 338.140, shall jointly

promulgate rules to implement the provisions of this

section. Any rule or portion of a rule, as that term is

defined in section 536.010, that is created under the

authority delegated in this section shall become effective

only if it complies with and is subject to all of the

provisions of chapter 536 and, if applicable, section

536.028. This section and chapter 536 are nonseverable and

if any of the powers vested with the general assembly

pursuant to chapter 536 to review, to delay the effective

date, or to disapprove and annul a rule are subsequently

held unconstitutional, then the grant of rulemaking

authority and any rule proposed or adopted after August 28,

2023, shall be invalid and void.

338.206.

1. As used in this section, the term

"medical device" shall mean equipment that is furnished by a

supplier or a home health agency and meets the following

conditions:

(1)

Is a device classified by the U.S. Food and Drug

Administration as a Class I or Class II device under 21

U.S.C. Section 360c and its implementing regulations under

CFR Parts 860 to 892;

(2)

Is primarily and customarily used to serve a

medical purpose;
(3)

Generally is not useful to an individual in the

absence of an illness or injury; and

(4)

Is appropriate for use in the home.

2.

Notwithstanding any provision of this chapter to

the contrary, pharmacists may prescribe any medical devices

authorized by rule promulgated jointly by the state board of

registration for the healing arts and the board of pharmacy

in accordance with subsection 3 of this section.

3.

The state board of registration for the healing

arts, pursuant to section 334.125, and the board of

pharmacy, pursuant to section 338.140, shall jointly

promulgate rules to implement the provisions of this

section.

six months of the effective date of this section.

4.

Such rules shall be written and effective within
Any rule or portion of a rule, as that term is

defined in section 536.010, that is created under the

authority delegated in this section shall become effective

only if it complies with and is subject to all of the

provisions of chapter 536 and, if applicable, section

536.028.

if any of the powers vested with the general assembly

pursuant to chapter 536 to review, to delay the effective

date, or to disapprove and annul a rule are subsequently

held unconstitutional, then the grant of rulemaking

authority and any rule proposed or adopted after August 28,

2026, shall be invalid and void.

This section and chapter 536 are nonseverable and

338.208.

Notwithstanding any other provision of law to

the contrary, a pharmacist may dispense ivermectin and

hydroxychloroquine to a person, without requiring a

prescription order from a licensed health care practitioner,

upon the approval of a warning label for the use and

indication in accordance with any written, standardized

procedures or protocols for the pharmacist issued by the

board of pharmacy, including, if required, providing the

person with instructions on the proper use of ivermectin and

hydroxychloroquine.

that is dispensed by a pharmacist without a prescription

shall be kept behind the counter or otherwise not available

for self-service or direct consumer access, be stored in a

secure area accessible only to pharmacy personnel, and be

dispensed only by a pharmacist or pharmacy technician under

a pharmacist's supervision.

338.312.

Any ivermectin or hydroxychloroquine

1. As used in this section, unless the

context requires otherwise, the following terms mean:
(1)

"Declared state disaster or emergency", a disaster

or emergency event for which a governor's state of emergency

proclamation has been issued or that the President of the

United States has declared to be a major disaster or

emergency;

(2)

"Disaster period", the period of time that begins

ten days before a governor's proclamation of a state of

emergency or the declaration by the President of the United

States of a major disaster or emergency, whichever occurs

first, and extending for a period of sixty calendar days

following the end of the period specified in the

proclamation or declaration or sixty calendar days from the

proclamation or declaration if no end is provided.

governor may extend the disaster period as warranted;

(3)

The

"Pharmacy", the same meaning given to the term in

section 338.210.
2.

Notwithstanding any provision of law to contrary,

the board of pharmacy shall have the authority to waive

compliance with any Missouri rules and regulations for a

licensed pharmacy that is domiciled or headquartered in this

state when such pharmacy is dispensing, shipping, or

delivering prescription drugs into another state or United

States territory that is experiencing a declared state

disaster or emergency, provided that:

(1)

The pharmacy is a licensed pharmacy in good

standing under this chapter and is authorized to ship

prescription drugs into the state or territory in question;

(2)

The pharmacy is responding to an active declared

state disaster or emergency;
(3)

The pharmacy complies with all emergency rules and

regulations for pharmacies established by the state or

territory for the duration of the disaster period;

(4)

The pharmacy complies with all applicable federal

laws and regulations; and
(5)

The waiver applies only to prescription drugs

dispensed, shipped, or delivered to residents or health care

facilities located within the geographic area specified in

the declared state disaster or emergency.

3.

The board of pharmacy may promulgate rules to

implement the provisions of this section.

portion of a rule, as that term is defined in section

536.010, that is created under the authority delegated in

this section shall become effective only if it complies with

and is subject to all of the provisions of chapter 536 and,

if applicable, section 536.028.

are nonseverable and if any of the powers vested with

the general assembly pursuant to chapter 536 to review, to

delay the effective date, or to disapprove and annul a rule

are subsequently held unconstitutional, then the grant of

Any rule or

This section and chapter

rulemaking authority and any rule proposed or adopted after

August 28, 2026, shall be invalid and void.

376.417.

terms mean:

(1)

1. As used in this section, the following

"340B drug", the same meaning given to the term in

section 376.414;
(2)

"Covered entity", any entity described in

subparagraphs (A) to (K) of subsection (a)(4) of Section

340B of the Public Health Service Act, 42 U.S.C. Section

256b, including any pharmacy with which such entity has

contracted to dispense 340B drugs on behalf of the entity;

(3)

"Health carrier", the same meaning given to the

term in section 376.1350;

(4)

"Pharmacy", an entity licensed under chapter 338;

(5)

"Pharmacy benefits manager", the same meaning

given to the term in section 376.388.
2.

A health carrier, a pharmacy benefits manager, or

an agent or affiliate of such health carrier or pharmacy

benefits manager shall not discriminate against a covered

entity including, but not limited to, by doing any of the

following:

(1)

Reimbursing a covered entity for a quantity of a

340B drug in an amount less than it would pay any other

similarly situated pharmacy or entity that is not a covered

entity for such quantity of such drug on the basis that the

covered entity is a covered entity or that the covered

entity dispenses 340B drugs.

of commerce and insurance shall specify by rule the

circumstances under which a pharmacy or entity shall be

deemed a "similarly situated pharmacy or entity" for

purposes of this subdivision;

The director of the department

(2)

Imposing any terms or conditions on covered

entities that differ from such terms or conditions applied

to other similarly situated entities or pharmacies that are

not covered entities on the basis that the covered entity is

a covered entity or that the covered entity dispenses 340B

drugs including, but not limited to, terms or conditions

with respect to any of the following:

(a)

Fees, chargebacks, clawbacks, adjustments, or

other assessments;

(b)

Professional dispensing fees;

(c)

Restrictions or requirements regarding

participation in standard or preferred pharmacy networks;
(d)

Requirements relating to the frequency or scope of

audits or to inventory management systems using generally

accepted accounting principles; and

(e)

Any other restrictions, conditions, practices, or

policies that, as specified by the director of the

department of commerce and insurance, interfere with the

ability of a covered entity to maximize the value of

discounts provided under 42 U.S.C. Section 256b;

(3)

Discriminating in reimbursement to a covered

entity based on the determination or indication a drug is a

340B drug;

(4)

Requiring a covered entity to identify, either

directly or through a third party, a 340B drug;
(5)

Refusing to cover drugs purchased under the 340B

drug-pricing program; or
(6)

Requiring a covered entity to reverse, resubmit,

or clarify a 340B drug-pricing claim after the initial

adjudication unless these actions are:

(a)

In the normal course of pharmacy business and not

related to 340B drug pricing; or

(b)

Required by federal law.

3.

The director of the department of commerce and

insurance shall impose a civil penalty on any health

carrier, pharmacy benefits manager, or agent or affiliate of

such health carrier or pharmacy benefits manager that

violates the requirements of this section.

shall not exceed five thousand dollars per violation per day.

4.

Such penalty

The director of the department of commerce and

insurance shall promulgate rules to implement the provisions

of this section.

term is defined in section 536.010, that is created under

the authority delegated in this section shall become

effective only if it complies with and is subject to all of

the provisions of chapter 536 and, if applicable, section

536.028.

if any of the powers vested with the general assembly

pursuant to chapter 536 to review, to delay the effective

date, or to disapprove and annul a rule are subsequently

held unconstitutional, then the grant of rulemaking

authority and any rule proposed or adopted after August 28,

2026, shall be invalid and void.

Any rule or portion of a rule, as that

This section and chapter 536 are nonseverable and

376.1280.

terms mean:

(1)

1.

As used in this section, the following

"Acute pain", pain that results from disease,

accidental or intentional trauma, or other causes, that a

health care provider reasonably expects to last thirty days

or fewer;

(2)

"Chronic pain", pain that is a persistent and long-

lasting condition characterized by discomfort or pain that

lasts for more than twelve weeks, often persisting beyond

the expected healing time.

It may result from various

causes including, but not limited to, injury, surgery, nerve

damage, or underlying medical conditions;

(3)

"Enrollee", the same meaning given to the term in

section 376.1350;
(4)

"Health benefit plan", the same meaning given to

the term in section 376.1350;
(5)

"Health care professional", the same meaning given

to the term in section 376.1350.
2.

Notwithstanding any provision of law to the

contrary, when a licensed health care professional acting

within the scope of his or her license prescribes a

nonopioid medication for the treatment of acute or chronic

pain to an enrollee, it shall be unlawful for a health

benefit plan to:

(1)

Deny coverage of the nonopioid prescription drug

in favor of an opioid prescription drug;
(2)

Require the enrollee to try an opioid prescription

drug before providing coverage of the nonopioid prescription

drug; or

(3)

Require a higher level of cost-sharing for the

nonopioid prescription drug than for an opioid prescription

drug.

3.

This section shall apply to health benefit plans

delivered, issued for delivery, continued, or renewed on or

after January 1, 2027.

4.

The provisions of this section related to the

treatment of acute pain shall be applicable only when

multiple nonopioid medications are approved by the U.S. Food

and Drug Administration and indicated for the treatment of

acute pain.

5.

The provisions of this section related to the

treatment of chronic pain shall be applicable only when

multiple nonopioid medications are approved by the U.S. Food

and Drug Administration and indicated for the treatment of

chronic pain.

376.1960.

1.

This section shall be known and may be

cited as "Nora's Law".

2.

As used in this section, the following terms mean:

(1)

"Health benefit plan", the same meaning given to

the term in section 376.1350;
(2)

"Home blood pressure monitoring device", a mobile

device that can be used to measure blood pressure, and that

is validated for clinical accuracy and device calibration;

(3)

"Home blood pressure monitoring device services",

patient education and training services on the setup and use

of a home blood pressure monitoring device.

3.

Health benefit plans delivered, issued for

delivery, continued or renewed in this state on or after

January 1, 2027, and providing for maternity benefits, shall

provide coverage for a prescribed home blood pressure

monitoring device and home blood pressure monitoring device

services for pregnant women or women within twelve months

postpartum when determined to be medically appropriate in

accordance with American College of Obstetricians and

Gynecologists guidelines.

devices or home blood pressure monitoring device services

prescribed shall meet the requirements for medical necessity

only and can only be prescribed again if the condition being

monitored deteriorates as to necessitate another

prescription, or as necessary for subsequent pregnancies.

579.060.

Home blood pressure monitoring

1. A person commits the offense of unlawful

sale, distribution, or purchase of over-the-counter

methamphetamine precursor drugs if he or she knowingly:

(1) Sells, distributes, dispenses, or otherwise

provides any number of packages of any drug product

containing detectable amounts of ephedrine,

phenylpropanolamine, or pseudoephedrine, or any of their

salts, optical isomers, or salts of optical isomers, in a

total amount greater than seven and two-tenths grams to the

same individual within a thirty-day period, unless the

amount is dispensed, sold, or distributed pursuant to a

valid prescription; or

(2) Purchases, receives, or otherwise acquires within

a thirty-day period any number of packages of any drug

product containing any detectable amount of ephedrine,

phenylpropanolamine, or pseudoephedrine, or any of their

salts or optical isomers, or salts of optical isomers in a

total amount greater than seven and two-tenths grams,

without regard to the number of transactions, unless the

amount is purchased, received, or acquired pursuant to a

valid prescription; or

(3) Purchases, receives, or otherwise acquires within

a twenty-four-hour period any number of packages of any drug

product containing any detectable amount of ephedrine,

phenylpropanolamine, or pseudoephedrine, or any of their

salts or optical isomers, or salts of optical isomers in a

total amount greater than three and six-tenths grams,

without regard to the number of transactions, unless the

amount is purchased, received, or acquired pursuant to a

valid prescription; or

(4) Sells, distributes, dispenses, or otherwise

provides any number of packages of any drug product

containing detectable amounts of ephedrine,

phenylpropanolamine, or pseudoephedrine, or any of their

salts, optical isomers, or salts of optical isomers, in a

total amount greater than [forty-three] sixty-one and two-

tenths grams to the same individual within a twelve-month

period, unless the amount is dispensed, sold, or distributed

pursuant to a valid prescription; or

(5) Purchases, receives, or otherwise acquires within

a twelve-month period any number of packages of any drug

product containing any detectable amount of ephedrine,

phenylpropanolamine, or pseudoephedrine, or any of their

salts or optical isomers, or salts of optical isomers in a

total amount greater than [forty-three] sixty-one and two-

tenths grams, without regard to the number of transactions,

unless the amount is purchased, received, or acquired

pursuant to a valid prescription; or

(6) Dispenses or offers drug products that are not

excluded from Schedule V in subsection 17 or 18 of section

195.017 and that contain detectable amounts of ephedrine,

phenylpropanolamine, or pseudoephedrine, or any of their

salts, optical isomers, or salts of optical isomers, without

ensuring that such products are located behind a pharmacy

counter where the public is not permitted and that such

products are dispensed by a registered pharmacist or

pharmacy technician under subsection 11 of section 195.017;

or

(7) Holds a retail sales license issued under chapter

and knowingly sells or dispenses packages that do not

conform to the packaging requirements of section 195.418.

2. A pharmacist, intern pharmacist, or registered

pharmacy technician commits the offense of unlawful sale,

distribution, or purchase of over-the-counter

methamphetamine precursor drugs if he or she knowingly:

(1) Sells, distributes, dispenses, or otherwise
provides any number of packages of any drug product

containing detectable amounts of ephedrine,

phenylpropanolamine, or pseudoephedrine, or any of their

salts or optical isomers, or salts of optical isomers, in a

total amount greater than three and six-tenth grams to the

same individual within a twenty-four hour period, unless the

amount is dispensed, sold, or distributed pursuant to a

valid prescription; or

(2) Fails to submit information under subsection 13 of

section 195.017 and subsection 6 of section 195.417 about

the sales of any compound, mixture, or preparation of

products containing detectable amounts of ephedrine,

phenylpropanolamine, or pseudoephedrine, or any of their

salts, optical isomers, or salts of optical isomers, in

accordance with transmission methods and frequency

established by the department of health and senior services;

or

(3) Fails to implement and maintain an electronic log,

as required by subsection 12 of section 195.017, of each

transaction involving any detectable quantity of

pseudoephedrine, its salts, isomers, or salts of optical

isomers or ephedrine, its salts, optical isomers, or salts

of optical isomers; or

(4) Sells, distributes, dispenses or otherwise

provides to an individual under eighteen years of age

without a valid prescription any number of packages of any

drug product containing any detectable quantity of

pseudoephedrine, its salts, isomers, or salts of optical

isomers, or ephedrine, its salts or optical isomers, or

salts of optical isomers.

3. Any person who violates the packaging requirements

of section 195.418 and is considered the general owner or

operator of the outlet where ephedrine, pseudoephedrine, or

phenylpropanolamine products are available for sale shall

not be penalized if he or she documents that an employee

training program was in place to provide the employee who

made the unlawful retail sale with information on the state

and federal regulations regarding ephedrine,

pseudoephedrine, or phenylpropanolamine.

4. A manufacturer commits the offense of unlawful

sale, distribution, or purchase of over-the-counter

methamphetamine precursor drugs if he or she knowingly fails

to pay the fees required under subsection 7 of section

195.417.

5. The offense of unlawful sale, distribution, or

purchase of over-the-counter methamphetamine precursor drugs

is a class A misdemeanor.

✓
