SENADO DE PUERTO RICO
INFORMENEGATIVO
1 de agosto de 2026
AL SENADO DE PUERTO RICO:
[A Comisión de Asuntos Internos del Senado de Puerto Rico, previo estudio y consideración, no recomienda la aprobación de la Resolución del Senado 293.
La Resolución del Senado 293, *referida, tiene como propósito expresar el más categórico repudio del Senado de Puerto Rico al ataque de las fuerzas militares israelíes contra el Hospital Nasser de Gaza el 25 de agosto de 2025; exigir un cese al fuego inmediato, el levantamiento del bloqueo impuesto a la población civil y la preservación de los derechos humanos en Gaza.
Esta Comisión reconoce la gravedad de la crisis humanitaria que afecta a la población civil en Gaza y expresa su solidaridad con todas las víctimas del conflicto armado, particularmente con quienes han perdido familiares, hogares o acceso a servicios esenciales. La protección de la vida humana, el respeto a los derechos humanos y al derecho internacional humanitario constituyen principios universales que merecen el respaldo de toda sociedad democrática. Sin embargo, corresponde analizar la medida ante la consideración de esta Comisión desde la perspectiva de las competencias y limitaciones constitucionales del Senado de Puerto Rico.
Conforme a la Constitución de los Estados Unidos de América, la política exterior, las relaciones diplomáticas y las determinaciones oficiales sobre conflictos internacionales constituyen facultades reservadas al Gobierno Federal. En dicho contexto, el Artículo I, Sección 8, confiere al Congreso facultades sobre la declaración de

Informe R. del S. 293
Page 2
war, the regulation of trade with foreign nations, the maintenance of armed forces and other matters essentially linked to international relations. These powers demonstrate that decisions regarding armed conflicts, and international sanctions, blockades, and actions against foreign states correspond to the Federal Government. Furthermore, Article II, Section 2, of the federal Constitution recognizes the President as Commander in Chief of the Armed Forces and confers upon him essential powers in matters of foreign relations, including the negotiation of treaties, the appointment of ambassadors, and the conduct of the Nation’s diplomatic policy. The territorial clause, stipulated in Article IV, Section 3, Clause 2, of the Constitution of the United States, confers upon Congress the authority to dispose of and regulate territories. Puerto Rico, as a territory under the sovereignty of the United States, is subject to this constitutional structure, which reaffirms that foreign policy remains under the exclusive authority of the Federal Government. On the other hand, Section 2 of Article VI of the Constitution of the United States provides that the Constitution and federal laws and treaties constitute the supreme law of the Nation. In accordance with this provision, matters reserved to the Federal Government prevail over any state or territorial action incompatible with the exercise of such powers.

It is necessary to add that, pursuant to Public Law 600 of July 3, 1950 (“1*y 6N”), the Congress authorized the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico to adopt a local constitution, expressly providing that this process would take place within the framework of the sovereignty and plenary authority of the United States Congress over the territory of Puerto Rico. Consequently, the constitution of Puerto Rico was circumscribed to the organization of a government of a local nature, without conferring sovereign powers in matters of foreign policy or diplomatic relations. In accordance with this, the constitution of Puerto Rico establishes in Article I, Section 1, that political power emanates from the people and is "...within the bounds of the fraternal common accord between the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and the United States of America.

Report R. of S. 293
Page 3
Similarly, the Puerto Rican constitutional framework does not recognize any authority to the Government of Puerto Rico to intervene in international controversies or to adopt independent diplomatic positions from those of the Federal Government. The measure, in light of the evaluation by this committee, proposes a ceasefire, the lifting of a blockade, and other actions in response to an international conflict. However, although this Upper Body may express concern regarding humanitarian situations, it cannot assume functions constitutionally reserved to the Federal Government. In accordance with the foregoing, this Committee recognizes that the Constitution of the United States concentrates the conduct and determinations regarding foreign relations in the Federal Government, thereby guaranteeing a single foreign policy. This committee reaffirms its solidarity and commitment to the civilian victims of the conflict and recognizes the importance of promoting peace, the protection of human rights, and respect for international humanitarian law. Nevertheless, even recognizing the humanitarian purpose of the measure, these principles do not alter the constitutional distribution of powers. In proposing actions proper to the foreign policy of the United States, the measure exceeds the constitutional powers of the Legislative Assembly of Puerto Rico. The Senate lacks constitutional authority to issue official pronouncements with effects on the international relations of the United States or to order diplomatic, military, or international actions. For the foregoing reasons, the Committee on International Affairs of the Senate of Puerto Rico, after analysis and consideration, does not recommend the approval of Resolution of the Senate 293.

Respectfully submitted,
Thomas Rivera Schatz
President
