SB242

FKEB2D5-1

By Senator Bell

RFD: Fiscal Responsibility and Economic Development

First Read: 03-Feb-26

Page 0

FKEB2D5-1 02/03/2026 GED (L)ma 2026-134

SYNOPSIS:

Under existing law, an individual operating a

commercial motor vehicle must meet certain requirements

to validly operate upon the roads of the state. These

requirements include the possession of a valid

commercial driver license and the passage of certain

testing.

This bill would codify into state law federal

highway safety and transportation regulations that

require individuals who have obtained a commercial

driver license from a foreign government to show valid

proof of entry documentation to operate within the

state.

This bill would codify into state law federal

highway safety and transportation regulations that

require individuals operating commercial vehicles to

have proficiency in the English language and would

provide for penalties and impoundment procedures

associated with a violation.

This bill would create the offense of presenting

a false foreign commercial driver license and provide

for penalties.

This bill would also create the offense of

operating a commercial motor vehicle without proper

documentation and provide for penalties.
Page 1

A BILL

TO BE ENTITLED

AN ACT

Relating to commercial driver licenses; to amend

Section 32-6-49.18, Code of Alabama 1975, to require certain

commercial driver license holders to possess a United States

work authorization to operate a commercial motor vehicle

within the state; to require an operator of a commercial motor

vehicle to have proficiency in the English language; to

provide for certain impoundment procedures; to create the

offense of presenting a false foreign commercial driver

license; to create the offense of operating a commercial motor

vehicle without proper documentation; and to provide for

penalties.

BE IT ENACTED BY THE LEGISLATURE OF ALABAMA:

Section 1. Section 32-6-49.18, Code of Alabama 1975, is

amended to read as follows:

"§32-6-49.18

(a) Notwithstanding any law to the contrary, a an

personindividual may drive a commercial motor vehicle in this

state if the individual meets the following requirements:

(1) the person The individual has:

a. a A valid commercial driver license or commercial

driver license instruction learner permit issued by any state

or provinces or territories of Canada, territory, or
Page 2

possession of the United States, the District of Columbia, or

the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico in accordance with the minimum

federal standards for the issuance of commercial motor vehicle

driver licenses, ; or

b. Both a commercial driver license or commercial

learner permit issued by Canada, Mexico, or any other

jurisdiction under a waiver or exemption recognized by the

Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration and the additional

entry documents required under 8 C.F.R. § 214.2(b)(4).

(2)if the The license is not suspended, revoked, or

canceled; and if the personindividual is not disqualified from

driving a commercial motor vehicle, or subject to an out of

service order.

(b) The department must Alabama State Law Enforcement

Agency shall give all out of state convictions full faith and

credit and treat them for sanctioning purposes under this

article as if they occurred in this state."

Section 2. Division 3, commencing with Section

32-6-49.60, is added to Article 1A of Chapter 6 of Title 32,

Code of Alabama 1975, to read as follows:

Division 3

§32-6-49.60

This division shall be known and may cited as the

Highway Safety and Fairness Act.

§32-6-49.61

For the purposes of this division, the following terms

have the following meanings:
(1) COMMERCIAL DRIVER LICENSE (CDL). A license issued
Page 3

to an individual in accordance with the requirements of this

article, which authorizes the individual to drive a class of

commercial motor vehicle.

(2) COMMERCIAL LEARNER PERMIT (CLP). A permit issued to

an individual by a state or other jurisdiction of domicile, in

accordance with the standards contained in 49 C.F.R. Part 383,

which, when carried with a valid driver license issued by the

same state or jurisdiction, authorizes the individual to

operate a class of a commercial motor vehicle when accompanied

by a holder of a valid CDL for purposes of behind-the-wheel

training.

(3) COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE. The term as defined under
Section 32-6-49.3.
(4) FOREIGN GOVERNMENT. Any jurisdiction other than a

state, territory, province, or possession of the United

States.

(5) PUBLIC RECORD. a. All official books, papers,

exhibits, or records of any type required by law to be created

by or received and retained in a governmental office or

agency, affording notice or information to the public or

constituting a memorial of an act or transaction of a public

office or public servant.

b. A license, certificate, permit, seal, title, letter

of patent, or similar document issued by a state, territory,

or possession of the United States, the District of Columbia,

or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico or a foreign government

engaged in a reciprocal treaty or memorandum of understanding

with the United States.
Page 4

§32-6-49.62

(a) An individual commits the offense of presenting a

false foreign commercial driver license if the individual

knowingly:

(1) Makes, presents, or uses a public record with

knowledge of the falsity of the public record and with the

intent that the public record be taken as a genuine public

record; and

(2) Represents that a false public record made,

presented, or used under subdivision (1) is a valid commercial

driver license or commercial learner permit issued by a

foreign government.

(b) A violation of this section is a Class D felony.

§32-6-49.63

(a) An individual commits the offense of operating a

commercial motor vehicle without proper documentation if the

individual knowingly:

(1) Holds a valid commercial driver license issued by a
foreign government; and

(2) Does not have the additional entry documents

required under 8 C.F.R. § 214.2(b)(4) in his or her immediate

possession while operating a commercial motor vehicle.

(b)(1) Except as provided in subdivision (2), a

violation of this section is a Class D felony and subject to

any of the following:

a. The impounding of the commercial motor vehicle.

b. A one thousand dollar ($1,000) fine for the driver.

c. A two thousand dollar ($2,000) fine for the
Page 5

commercial motor carrier.
(2) A violation of this section is a Class A

misdemeanor if the individual establishes by a preponderance

of the evidence that at the time the offense was committed,

the individual had been issued the additional entry documents

required under 8 C.F.R. § 214.2(b)(4).

§32-6-49.64

(a) An operator of a commercial motor vehicle shall be

able to read and speak the English language sufficiently to

meet the English language proficiency requirements under 49

C.F.R. § 391.11.

(b) An individual commits the offense of operating a

commercial motor vehicle without sufficient English language

proficiency if the individual:

(1) Operates a commercial motor vehicle; and

(2) Fails to demonstrate proficiency in the English

language as required under subsection (a).
(c)(1) For a first violation of this section, a person

who violates this section is guilty of a traffic violation,

which shall be punished by a fine of up to one thousand

dollars ($1,000) for the operator, a fine of up to two

thousand dollars ($2,000) for the commercial motor carrier,

and the impoundment of the commercial motor vehicle if it is

determined that the operator or the commercial motor vehicle

poses a threat to public safety.

(2) A second or subsequent violation of this section

shall be punished by a fine of up to two thousand dollars

($2,000) for the operator, a fine of up to four thousand
Page 6

dollars ($4,000) for the commercial motor carrier, and the

impoundment of the commercial motor vehicle.

(d)(1) The law enforcement officer making the

impoundment shall direct an approved towing service to tow the

commercial motor vehicle to the garage of the towing service,

storage lot, or other place of safety and maintain custody and

control of the commercial motor vehicle until the registered

owner or authorized agent of the registered owner claims the

commercial motor vehicle by paying all reasonable and

customary towing and storage fees for the services of the

towing company. The commercial motor vehicle shall then be

released to the registered owner or an agent of the owner.

(2) Any towing service or towing company removing the

commercial motor vehicle at the direction of the law

enforcement officer in accordance with this section shall have

a lien on the commercial motor vehicle for all reasonable and

customary fees relating to the towing and storage of the

commercial motor vehicle. This lien shall be subject and

subordinate to all prior security interests and other liens

affecting the commercial motor vehicle whether evidenced on

the certificate of title or otherwise. Notice of any sale or

other proceedings relative to this lien shall be given to the

holders of all prior security interest or other liens by

official service of process at least 15 days prior to any sale

or other proceedings.

(3) Any person in possession of a commercial motor

vehicle impounded pursuant to this section shall be subject to

the provisions of Chapter 13 of Title 32, relating to the
Page 7

impoundment and sale of abandoned vehicles; Section 32-8-84,

relating to the procedures for unclaimed vehicles; and Section

41-27-61, relating to the procedures for freight retrieval of

impounded commercial vehicles.

Section 3. This act shall become effective on October
1, 2026.

Page 8
