Florida Senate - 2026

By Senator Pizzo

20261542__
A bill to be entitled

An act relating to immigration; amending s. 20.60,

F.S.; revising the duties and responsibilities of the

Office of Economic Accountability and Transparency

within the Department of Commerce; amending s. 448.09,

F.S.; revising penalties, including suspension and

revocation of certain licenses and the imposition of

fines, for violating provisions related to employing

unauthorized aliens; requiring that such fines be

deposited into a specified trust fund; conforming

provisions to changes made by the act; providing

increased penalties, including suspension and

permanent revocation of certain licenses and the

imposition of fines, for violating provisions related

to employing unauthorized aliens if such an employee’s

actions result in specified injuries or death;

requiring that such fines be deposited into a

specified trust fund; amending s. 448.095, F.S.;

revising the definition of the term “employee”;

providing that an individual who receives a Form 1099

from his or her employer is an employee; requiring

that all private employers, rather than only those

employing a specified number or more of employees, use

the E-Verify system to verify a new employee’s

employment eligibility; prohibiting the awarding of

future public contracts by any public agency in this

state to specified contractors; requiring that certain

fines be deposited into a specified trust fund;

conforming provisions to changes made by the act;
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261542__

amending s. 908.104, F.S.; authorizing law enforcement

agencies to use the E-Verify system to investigate a

detained person’s immigration status; reenacting s.

163.3162(2)(g), F.S., relating to agricultural lands

and practices, to incorporate the amendment made to s.

448.095, F.S., in a reference thereto; providing an

effective date.

Be It Enacted by the Legislature of the State of Florida:

Section 1.

Paragraph (a) of subsection (3) of section

20.60, Florida Statutes, is amended to read:

20.60 Department of Commerce; creation; powers and duties.—

(3)(a) The following divisions and offices of the

Department of Commerce are established:

1. The Division of Economic Development.

2. The Division of Community Development.

3. The Division of Workforce Services.

4. The Division of Finance and Administration.

5. The Division of Information Technology.

6. The Office of the Secretary.

7. The Office of Economic Accountability and Transparency,

which shall:
a. Oversee the department’s critical objectives as

determined by the secretary and make sure that the department’s

key objectives are clearly communicated to the public.

b. Organize department resources, expertise, data, and

research to focus on and solve the complex economic challenges

facing the state.
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261542__

c. Provide leadership for the department’s priority issues

that require integration of policy, management, and critical

objectives from multiple programs and organizations internal and

external to the department; and organize and manage external

communication on such priority issues.

d. Promote and facilitate key department initiatives to

address priority economic issues and explore data and identify

opportunities for innovative approaches to address such economic

issues.

e. Promote strategic planning for the department.

f.

Administer and enforce the E-Verify system and

employment authorization compliance as set forth in ss. 448.09

and 448.095.

Section 2.

Present subsection (5) of section 448.09,

Florida Statutes, is redesignated as subsection (8), new

subsections (5), (6), and (7) are added to that section, and

subsections (3) and (4) of that section are amended, to read:

448.09 Unauthorized aliens; employment prohibited.—

(3) For an employer that violates this section, the

department shall suspend or revoke all licenses issued by a

licensing agency pursuant to chapter 120 for 1 year and impose a

fine not to exceed $10,000. Fines must be deposited in the

Highway Safety Operating Trust Fund For a violation of this

section, the department shall place the employer on probation

for a 1-year period and require that the employer report

quarterly to the department to demonstrate compliance with the

requirements of subsection (1) and s. 448.095.

(4) For an employer that violates this section a second

time, the department shall suspend or revoke all licenses issued
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261542__

by a licensing agency pursuant to chapter 120 for 5 years and

impose a fine not to exceed $50,000. Fines must be deposited in

the Highway Safety Operating Trust Fund Any violation of this

section which takes place within 24 months after a previous

violation constitutes grounds for the suspension or revocation

of all licenses issued by a licensing agency subject to chapter

120. The department shall take the following actions for a

violation involving:

(a) One to ten unauthorized aliens, suspension of all

applicable licenses held by a private employer for up to 30 days

by the respective agencies that issued them.

(b) Eleven to fifty unauthorized aliens, suspension of all

applicable licenses held by a private employer for up to 60 days

by the respective agencies that issued them.

(c) More than fifty unauthorized aliens, revocation of all

applicable licenses held by a private employer by the respective

agencies that issued them.

(5) For an employer that violates this section a third

time, the department shall permanently revoke all licenses

issued by a licensing agency pursuant to chapter 120 and impose

a fine not to exceed $250,000. Fines must be deposited in the

Highway Safety Operating Trust Fund.

(6) If, for an employer that violates this section, an

unauthorized alien employee’s actions result in injuries to

another person, the department shall suspend or revoke all

licenses issued by a licensing agency pursuant to chapter 120

for 5 years and impose a fine not to exceed $100,000. Fines must

be deposited in the Highway Safety Operating Trust Fund.

(7)

If, for an employer that violates this section, an

CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261542__

unauthorized alien employee’s actions result in the death of

another person, the department must permanently revoke all

licenses issued by a licensing agency pursuant to chapter 120

and impose a fine not to exceed $500,000. Fines must be

deposited in the Highway Safety Operating Trust Fund.

Section 3.

Paragraph (b) of subsection (1), paragraph (b)

of subsection (2), paragraph (c) of subsection (5), and

subsection (6) of section 448.095, Florida Statutes, are amended

to read:

448.095 Employment eligibility.—

(1) DEFINITIONS.—As used in this section, the term:

(b) “Employee” means an individual filling a permanent

position who performs labor or services under the control or

direction of an employer that has the power or right to control

and direct the employee in the material details of how the work

is to be performed in exchange for salary, wages, or other

remuneration. The term also includes labor that is occasional,

incidental, or irregular and that exceeds 40 person-hours in

total duration. As used in this subsection, the term “duration”

means the period of time from the commencement to the completion

of the particular job or project. An individual hired for casual

labor, as defined in s. 443.036, which is to be performed

entirely within a private residence, is not an employee of an

occupant or owner of the a private residence. An independent

contractor, as defined in federal laws or regulations, hired to

perform a specified portion of labor or services is not an

employee. For the purposes of this section, an individual who

receives a Form 1099 from his or her employer is an employee.

(2) EMPLOYMENT VERIFICATION.—
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261542__

(b)1. A public agency shall use the E-Verify system to

verify a new employee’s employment eligibility as required under

paragraph (a).

2. Beginning on July 1, 2026 2023, all a private employers

employer with 25 or more employees shall use the E-Verify system

to verify a new employee’s employment eligibility as required

under paragraph (a).

3. Each employer shall required to use the E-Verify system

under this paragraph must certify on its first return each

calendar year to the tax service provider that it is in

compliance with this section when making contributions to or

reimbursing the state’s unemployment compensation or

reemployment assistance system. An employer that voluntarily

uses the E-Verify system may also make such a certification on

its first return each calendar year in order to document such

use.

(5) PUBLIC AGENCY CONTRACTING.—

(c)1. A public agency, contractor, or subcontractor who has

a good faith belief that a person or an entity with which it is

contracting has knowingly violated s. 448.09(1) shall terminate

the contract with the person or entity.

2. A public agency that has a good faith belief that a

subcontractor knowingly violated this subsection, but the

contractor otherwise complied with this subsection, shall

promptly notify the contractor and order the contractor to

immediately terminate the contract with the subcontractor.

3. A contract terminated under this paragraph is not a

breach of contract and may not be considered as such. If a

public agency terminates a contract with a contractor under this
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261542__

paragraph, the contractor may not be awarded any public contract

in the future with any public agency in this state a public

contract for at least 1 year after the date on which the

contract was terminated. A contractor is liable for any

additional costs incurred by a public agency as a result of the

termination of a contract.

(6) COMPLIANCE.—

(a) In addition to the requirements under s. 288.061(6),

beginning on July 1, 2024, for public agencies or beginning on

July 1, 2026, for private employers, if the Department of

Commerce determines that an employer failed to use the E-Verify

system to verify the employment eligibility of employees as

required under this section, the department must notify the

employer of the department’s determination of noncompliance and

provide the employer with 30 days to cure the noncompliance.

(b) If the Department of Commerce determines that an

employer failed to use the E-Verify system as required under

this section three times in any 24-month period, the department

must impose a fine of $1,000 per day until the employer provides

sufficient proof to the department that the noncompliance is

cured. Continued noncompliance constitutes grounds for the

suspension of all licenses issued by a licensing agency subject

to chapter 120 until the noncompliance is cured.

(c) Fines collected under this subsection must be deposited

into the Highway Safety Operating Trust Fund State Economic

Enhancement and Development Trust Fund for use by the department

for employer outreach and public notice of the state’s

employment verification laws.

Section 4.

Present paragraphs (a) through (f) of subsection

CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261542__

(2) of section 908.104, Florida Statutes, are redesignated as

paragraphs (b) through (g), respectively, and a new paragraph

(a) is added to that subsection, to read:

908.104 Cooperation with federal immigration authorities.—

(2) Except as otherwise expressly prohibited by federal

law, a state entity, local governmental entity, or law

enforcement agency, or an employee, an agent, or a

representative of the entity or agency, may not prohibit or in

any way restrict a law enforcement agency from taking any of the

following actions with respect to information regarding a

person’s immigration status:

(a) Using the E-Verify system to investigate a detained
person’s immigration status.

Section 5.

For the purpose of incorporating the amendment

made by this act to section 448.095, Florida Statutes, in a

reference thereto, paragraph (g) of subsection (2) of section

163.3162, Florida Statutes, is reenacted to read:

163.3162 Agricultural lands and practices.—

(2) DEFINITIONS.—As used in this section, the term:

(g) “Legally verified agricultural worker” means a person

who:

1. Is lawfully present in the United States;

2. Meets the definition of eligible worker pursuant to 29

C.F.R. s. 502.10;
3. Has been verified through the process provided in s.
448.095(2) and is authorized to work at the time of employment;
4. Is seasonally or annually employed in bona fide
agricultural production;
5. Remains lawfully present and authorized to work
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261542__

throughout the duration of that employment; and
6. Is not an unauthorized alien as defined in s.
448.095(1).
Section 6.

This act shall take effect July 1, 2026.

CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.
