Senate Bill 116
By: Senators Bearden of the 30th, Robertson of the 29th, Payne of the 54th, Anavitarte of the
31st, Albers of the 56th and others
AS PASSED SENATE
A BILL TO BE ENTITLED
AN ACT

To amend Article 6A of Chapter 3 of Title 35 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated,

relating to DNA sampling, collection, and analysis, so as to require the collection of DNA

samples from certain individuals in a detention facility charged with a misdemeanor or

felony who are subject to an immigration detainer notice; to provide for related matters; to

repeal conflicting laws; and for other purposes.

BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF GEORGIA:

SECTION 1.

Article 6A of Chapter 3 of Title 35 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, relating to

DNA sampling, collection, and analysis, is amended by revising Code Section 35-3-160,

relating to DNA analysis in felony convictions and certain felony charges and performance

of tests, as follows:

"35-3-160.

(a) As used in this article, the term:

(1) 'Department' means the Department of Corrections.

(2) 'Detention facility' means a penal institution under the jurisdiction of the department,

including penal institutions operated by a private company on behalf of the department,

inmate work camps, inmate boot camps, probation detention centers, parole revocation

centers, and county jails, and municipal detention correctional facilities.

(3) 'Division' means the Division of Forensic Sciences of the bureau.

(b)(1) A sample of deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) shall be collected by oral swab or other

noninvasive procedure from any individual:

(A) Who has been convicted of a felony and is currently incarcerated in a detention

facility, serving a probation sentence, or serving under the jurisdiction of the State

Board of Pardons and Paroles for such felony;

(B) Who has been charged with a felony, and sentence for such offense has been

imposed pursuant to Article 3 of Chapter 8 of Title 42 or pursuant to subsection (a)

or (c) of Code Section 16-13-2; or

(C) Who has been convicted of charged with a misdemeanor or felony and is subject

to an immigration detainer notice as such term is defined in Code Section 42-1-11.5,

provided that such individual is not taken into custody by the United States Immigration

and Customs Enforcement Division of the Department of Homeland Security within 48

hours of detention, excluding weekends and holidays, as required by 8 C.F.R. Section

287.76(d).

(2) Unless a DNA sample has already been collected by the department or another

agency or entity, each DNA sample required by paragraph (1) of this subsection shall be

collected by the detention facility which is detaining or the entity which is supervising

such individual, and the sample shall be forwarded to the division.

(3) Paragraph (1) of this subsection shall not apply to any individual for a conviction for

a misdemeanor, to any individual who is charged with a misdemeanor and the sentence

for such misdemeanor is imposed pursuant to Article 3 of Chapter 8 of Title 42 regarding

first offenders, or because he or she has been charged with a misdemeanor.

(c) DNA analysis shall be performed by the division. The division shall be authorized to

contract with individuals or organizations for services to perform such analysis. The

identifying characteristics of the profile resulting from the DNA analysis shall be stored

and maintained by the bureau in a DNA data bank in accordance with Code

Sections 35-3-162 and 35-3-163 and shall be made available only as provided in Code

Section 35-3-163."

SECTION 2.
All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this Act are repealed.
