HB520

5VXI266-1

By Representatives Paramore, Ledbetter, Reynolds, Whitt,

Lomax, Crawford, Baker, Clouse, Stubbs, Starnes, Sorrells,

Marques, Allbright, Rehm, Brown, Hulsey, Shaw, Crow, Lee

RFD: Ways and Means Education

First Read: 26-Feb-26

Page 0

5VXI266-1 02/25/2026 KMS (L)KMS 2026-1045

SYNOPSIS:
Under existing law, there are various pathways
for an individual to obtain a teaching certificate.

This bill would require the State Board of

Education to establish an expedited pathway for an

individual to obtain a certificate to teach career and

technical education courses.

A BILL

TO BE ENTITLED

AN ACT

Relating to teacher certification; to add Section

16-23-3.2 to the Code of Alabama 1975; to require the State

Board of Education to establish an expedited certification

pathway for a career and technical teaching certificate; and

to provide for qualifications and limitations.

BE IT ENACTED BY THE LEGISLATURE OF ALABAMA:

Section 1. The Legislature finds and declares that the

state must provide additional career and technical education

opportunities for Alabama students to help them prepare to

enter the workforce. In order to support these offerings, the

state must attract and retain the required number of career

and technical education instructors. Therefore, the
Page 1

Legislature finds that the State Department of Education

should take steps to increase the number of career and

technical education instructors in the state. It is the intent

of this act to streamline the process to obtain a teaching

certificate for those educators who move to Alabama to teach

career and technical education and related courses.

Section 2. Section 16-23-3.2 is added to the Code of
Alabama 1975, to read as follows:

§16-23-3.2

(a) The State Board of Education shall establish an

expedited certification pathway for the issuance of a teaching

certificate by the State Superintendent of Education to a

qualified individual who seeks to teach career and technical

education (CTE) courses at a public high school in Alabama

when that individual has previously taught CTE courses or

their equivalent in another state.

(b) To be approved for an expedited CTE teaching

certificate, the applicant shall satisfy all of the following

requirements:

(1) Submit to the State Board of Education the required

application form and fees to obtain a teaching certificate.

(2) Hold a valid, active teaching certificate, or its

equivalent, obtained from another state and submit a copy of

the certificate with the application.
(3) Provide documentation demonstrating at least four

years of full-time experience teaching CTE courses or

substantially equivalent workforce-related courses in another

state.
Page 2

(4) Hold at a minimum a bachelor's degree from an

accredited institution of higher education.

(5) Is recommended for certification by a local
superintendent of education.

(6) Successfully pass a criminal history background
check.

(c) Upon verification that an applicant satisfies the

requirements of subsection (b), the State Superintendent of

Education shall issue an Alabama teaching certificate

authorizing the individual to teach CTE courses as soon as

practicable and shall not require any additional testing,

coursework, or documentation prior to issuance.

(d) Any teaching certificate issued in accordance with

the requirements of this section shall have the same term and

renewal requirements as all other standard teaching

certificates issued under this chapter.

(e) An individual who is granted a teaching certificate
pursuant to this section may only teach CTE courses.

(f) A local board of education, in its discretion and

subject to available funds, may provide a relocation stipend

or hiring incentive to an individual certified under this

section who moves to Alabama from another state to teach CTE

courses.

(g) The State Superintendent of Education shall keep a

record of the number of certificates issued annually under

this section and shall submit a report to the Governor, the

Speaker of the House of Representatives, and the President Pro

Tempore of the Senate by February 1 of each year which
Page 3

provides information on the number of certificates issued, the

schools where these certificate holders are teaching, and the

efficacy of the program.

(h) The State Board of Education shall adopt rules as
necessary to implement and administer this section.

Section 3. This act shall become effective on June 1,
2026.

Page 4
