HB517

7BCLHEV-1

By Representatives Lomax, Whitt, Paramore, Crawford, Reynolds,

Rigsby, Crow, DuBose, Ingram

RFD: Ways and Means Education

First Read: 26-Feb-26

Page 0

7BCLHEV-1 02/24/2026 KHF (F)KHF 2026-1043

SYNOPSIS:

This bill would establish the Talent Readiness

and Industry Needs (TRAIN) Act to authorize businesses

to partner with eligible educational institutions to

provide career and technical education instruction.

This bill would incentivize employers to loan

qualified employees to serve as instructors in career

and technical education programs by creating a tax

credit to offset their income, financial institution

excise, and utility tax liability.

This bill would establish a workforce teaching

certificate and a streamlined process for qualified

employees to obtain a certificate to teach a designated

career and technical education program at an eligible

educational institution.

A BILL

TO BE ENTITLED

AN ACT

Relating to career and technical education; to enact

the Talent Readiness and Industry Needs (TRAIN) Act; to

authorize businesses to partner with eligible educational
Page 1

institutions to provide career and technical education

instruction to students; to provide state income, financial

institution excise, and utility tax credits to employers that

loan qualified employees to serve as instructors in career and

technical education programs at eligible educational

institutions; and to establish a workforce teaching

certificate and a streamlined process for qualified employees

to obtain a certificate to teach a designated career and

technical education program at an eligible education

institution.

BE IT ENACTED BY THE LEGISLATURE OF ALABAMA:

Section 1. This act shall be known and may be cited as
the Talent Readiness and Industry Needs (TRAIN) Act.
Section 2. The Legislature finds that Career and

Technical Education (CTE) plays a vital role in preparing

students for in-demand careers across a range of industries

including manufacturing, information technology, construction,

and skilled trades. Many school districts across the state

face challenges in recruiting and retaining qualified CTE

instructors, due to certification barriers, regional

shortages, and competition with private-sector wages. The

involvement of current industry professionals in the classroom

could provide students with direct exposure to up-to-date,

real-world knowledge and practices, thereby improving

educational outcomes and workforce readiness. The Legislature

also finds that public-private partnerships between schools

and industry are essential to closing the skills gap and

ensuring that education aligns with the evolving needs of the
Page 2

economy. The TRAIN Act would provide an opportunity for the

private sector to partner with eligible educational

institutionS to provide CTE instruction to students and

provide for industry professionals to obtain CTE

certification. Therefore, it is the intent of the Legislature

to establish a targeted income tax credit to incentivize

employers to loan qualified employees to serve as instructors

in CTE programs at eligible educational institutions in order

to promote workforce development and economic growth.

Section 3. For the purposes of this act, the following
terms shall have the following meanings:

(1) ALABAMA COMMUNITY COLLEGE. Any public two-year

institution of higher education under the control of the Board

of Trustees of the Alabama Community College System.

(2) DEPARTMENT. The State Department of Education.

(3) DESIGNATED CTE PROGRAM. A career and technical

education program for grade 9 or higher at an eligible

educational institution in a high-demand sector. The

high-demand sectors eligible for this designation shall be

reviewed and approved annually by the Executive Committee of

the Alabama Workforce Board, which shall provide notice to the

Department of Workforce and the department regarding its

approval or denial by March 31 of each year to be eligible for

the next academic year.

(4) ELIGIBLE EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION. An Alabama

community college, local education agency, or a public high

school.

(5) EMPLOYER. A corporation, partnership, limited
Page 3

liability company, or other business entity registered to do

business in this state and in good standing with the

Department of Revenue.

(6) PUBLIC HIGH SCHOOL. A public secondary school

operated by a local education agency in this state that

provides instruction in any grade from 9 through 12 that

offers an approved career and technical education program as

recognized by the department.

(7) QUALIFIED EMPLOYEE. An individual employed by an
employer who:
a. Possesses a Bachelor's degree or other certification
accepted by the department;

b. Has not less than three years of occupational

experience or appropriate industry-recognized certification in

a relevant field corresponding to a designated CTE program;

c. Has a history of positive performance reviews from

his or her employer; and
d. Has successfully passed a criminal history

background check and meets any other screening requirements of

the eligible educational institution.

A qualified employee will not be a public employee or a
loaned employee for purposes of the Alabama Ethics Act.

(8) SALARY. The actual wages or compensation paid by an

employer to a qualified employee during a teaching assignment.

(9) TEACHING ASSIGNMENT. The agreed-upon period during

which a qualified employee is loaned by an employer to an

eligible educational institution to serve as an instructor in

a designated CTE program, provided that the assignment shall
Page 4

consist of weekly in-person attendance at the school and no

less than 300 hours of direct instruction to students within

an academic year or another minimum time requirement

established by the department.

(10) WORKFORCE TEACHING CERTIFICATE. A temporary or

emergency teaching certificate issued to a qualified employee

that authorizes the employee to teach a designated CTE program

at an eligible educational institution.

Section 4. Creation of the TRAIN Credit; Eligibility.

(a) There is hereby created a tax credit that an

employer may apply against any of the following:
(1) To offset the income taxes levied in Chapter 18 of

Title 40, Code of Alabama 1975, or as an estimated tax payment

of income taxes.

(2) To offset the state portion of the financial

institution excise tax levied in Chapter 16 of Title 40, Code

of Alabama 1975.

(3) To offset state license taxes levied by Article 2,
Chapter 21 of Title 40, Code of Alabama 1975.

(b) The amount of the tax credit shall equal the

portion of the qualified employee's salary paid by the

employer for time directly attributable to the teaching

assignment in the applicable tax year, subject to the

limitations provided in this section.

(c) Subject to the provisions of this act, an employer

shall be eligible to claim a credit if it meets all of the

following conditions:

(1) The employer enters into a memorandum of
Page 5

understanding (MOU) or other agreement between the eligible

educational institution and the employer that outlines the

conditions under which a qualified employee with a workforce

teaching certificate or other teaching certificate would be

authorized to participate in a teaching assignment in a

designated CTE program. Each MOU or agreement between an

employer and an eligible educational institution shall, at a

minimum, include all of the following:

a. The name of the qualified employee and a description

of the designated CTE program in which instruction will occur.

b. The duration of the teaching assignment, including
total instructional hours and term or terms covered.
c. A statement confirming that the employer will

continue to pay the qualified employee's full salary and

benefits during the teaching assignment. A qualified employee

is not entitled to any compensation from an eligible

educational institution, but the institution may elect to

compensate a qualified employee in whatever manner it deems

appropriate.

d. A certification by the employer that the qualified

employee has passed, or will pass prior to beginning the

teaching assignment, all background screening requirements as

required by the eligible educational institution.

e. The method of verifying attendance, instructional

hours, and program completion for purposes of credit

certification.

f. A provision authorizing the department to inspect
records and verify compliance.
Page 6

g. A provision acknowledging that noncompliance with

any of these requirements may result in recapture of the tax

credit, as provided in this act.

h. A statement that the employer shall maintain

workers' compensation and general liability coverage for the

qualified employee during the teaching assignment.

i. A statement regarding liability for actions

performed by the qualified employee in furtherance of the

teaching assignment.

(2) The employer has received a TRAIN Act credit

reservation certificate from the department for an approved

agreement with an eligible educational institution.

(3) The employer continues to pay the qualified

employee's full salary and benefits during the teaching

assignment.

(4) The eligible educational institution provides the

qualified employee with the classroom space, equipment, and

other instructional materials required to conduct the teaching

assignment unless otherwise agreed to in the MOU.

(d) To the extent that a tax credit is used by an

employer, the employer shall not be allowed any deduction that

would have otherwise been allowed for the employer's payment

of the qualified employee's salary. Credits may only be

claimed by the employer and may not be assigned or transferred

to any other taxpayer provided, the credit issued to a parent

or holding company may be claimed by the subsidiary, provided

both parent or holding company and subsidiary are filing as

part of an Alabama consolidated return.
Page 7

(e) In no event shall the credit cause an employer's

tax liability to be reduced by more than 50 percent. Unused

credits may be carried forward for no more than five years but

shall not be transferable.

(f) In the event that a teaching assignment is not

completed in full, the credit shall be prorated and available

to the employer only for the portion of the salary paid for

services actually rendered by the qualified employee and

accepted by the eligible educational institution. If an

agreement is terminated by the eligible educational

institution, the Department of Revenue, after consultation

with the department, may disallow the credit in its entirety

for that tax year.

(g) The tax credits may be claimed beginning January 1,
2027, for the 2027 tax year.

(h) The statewide annual aggregate of tax credits

allowed under this section shall not exceed ten million

dollars ($10,000,000).

(i) Notwithstanding any other provision of this act,

the total amount of credit that may be reserved and claimed by

any single employer, including all affiliates, subsidiaries,

or related entities filing under a consolidated or combined

Alabama return, shall not exceed two hundred fifty thousand

dollars ($250,000) in the aggregate for all tax years. The

Department of Revenue shall ensure that no credit reservation

certificate is issued that would cause an employer to exceed

this limitation.

Section 5. Forms; Construction of Article; Rulemaking
Page 8

Authority.

(a) All findings and applications made with any

department of the state government shall be made using forms

adopted by the department. The filing shall be treated as a

tax return, subject to penalties imposed by the Department of

Revenue.

(b) Nothing in this article shall be construed to

constitute a guarantee or assumption by the state of any debt

of any company nor to authorize the credit of the state to be

given, pledged, or loaned to any company.

(c) Nothing in this article shall be construed to make

available to any taxpayer any right to the benefits conferred

by this article absent strict compliance with this article.

(d) Nothing in this article shall be construed to limit

the powers otherwise existing for the Department of Revenue to

audit and assess a taxpayer claiming the credit.

(e) The department is authorized to work with the

Department of Revenue and the Department of Workforce to adopt

rules as necessary to implement and administer this article.

Section 6. Administration.

(a) The Department of Revenue shall be responsible for

administering the tax credit provisions of this act and may

adopt rules and regulations necessary for its implementation

and enforcement.

(b) The Department of Revenue shall establish a process

to approve agreements and allocate tax credits in accordance

with the following:

(1) Upon receipt of an executed agreement, the
Page 9

department shall issue a TRAIN Act credit reservation

certificate to the employer.

(2) The certificate shall state the maximum amount of

credit reserved for the employer and the corresponding

teaching assignment, which may span multiple tax years.

(3) Tax credits reserved by certificates issued in a

prior calendar year shall count against the cap for the

calendar year in which the certificate was issued.

(4) The Department of Revenue shall track credit

reservations by employer and shall deny or reduce any

requested reservation that would cause the employer to exceed

the per-employer limitation established in Section 4(i).

(c) The department, in consultation with the Department

of Workforce and the Executive Committee of the Alabama

Workforce Board, shall administer the process for approving

designated CTE programs that are eligible for participation

under this act, pursuant to the annual sector approvals

provided in Section 3(3).

(d) In order to claim a tax credit, an employer must

file the appropriate forms with the Department of Revenue and

provide a copy of its TRAIN Act credit reservation

certificate, documentation of the agreement, proof of salary

payments made during the tax year for which the credit is

claimed, and any other information required by the department.

(e) The department shall submit an annual report by the

third legislative day of each regular session of the

Legislature to the Governor, the Speaker of the House of

Representatives, the President Pro Tempore of the Senate, and
Page 10

the Legislative Fiscal Office summarizing:

(1) The number of tax credits approved and claimed;

(2) The number of employers, qualified employees, and

institutions participating;

(3) Geographic distribution; and

(4) Program outcomes.

(f) No later than July 1, 2031, the department shall

submit to the Governor and the Legislature a report evaluating

the effectiveness of the TRAIN Act, including data on

participation, geographic distribution, and workforce

outcomes, and shall include recommendations as to whether the

program should be extended, modified, or allowed to expire.

Section 7. The tax credits provided in this article

shall not be available for employers as described in this

article, for which agreements are not approved on or prior to

December 31, 2031, unless the Legislature enacts legislation

to extend the date. This shall only affect the availability of

credits for applications not approved on or prior to December

31, 2031, and shall not cause a reduction or suspension of any

credits awarded on or prior to December 31, 2031.

Section 8. Certification Process.

(a) In order to support statewide workforce development

initiatives, it is necessary to establish a streamlined

process by which private sector employees may teach a

qualified CTE program at an eligible educational institution.

(b) The department, in consultation with the Department

of Workforce, is authorized to adopt the rules and criteria

for the establishment and issuance of a workforce teaching
Page 11

certificate that would authorize a qualified employee to serve

as a classroom teacher at an eligible educational institution

while still employed and paid by a private sector employer.

(c) The workforce teaching certificate shall authorize
a qualified employee to engage in the following:
(1) To accept a teaching assignment, serve as a

classroom teacher, and provide direct instruction for a

qualified CTE program.

(2) To enter grades, maintain instructional records,

and perform duties customarily exercised by full-time

instructors, subject to approval by an eligible educational

institution.

(3) Other duties as determined by the eligible
educational institution.

(d) A qualified employee may not receive a workforce

teaching certificate until after he or she has successfully

passed a criminal history background check and obtained

clearance from the department in accordance with the

requirements of Section 16-22A-5, Code of Alabama 1975.

(e) The department may terminate an individual's

workforce teaching certificate at any time for cause. An

eligible educational institution may terminate an agreement

with an employer that is entered into in accordance with the

requirements of this act at any time if the qualified

employee:

(1) Has his or her workforce teaching certificate
terminated;
(2) Does not comply with the requirements of the
Page 12

agreement; or
(3) Does not conduct the teaching assignment at the
expected level of performance.

(f) The department shall develop and administer a

training program that must be taken and passed by a qualified

employee prior to the issuance of a workforce teaching

certificate and that individual beginning a teaching

assignment. The training program shall be offered online. The

training program should be limited in scope and duration, and

the program's instructional time should not exceed what is

reasonably necessary to conduct a teaching assignment. The

training program could include the entry level occupational

proficiency assessment that is approved by the department, if

applicable, but it must provide targeted instruction in: (i)

classroom management; (ii) basic instructional methods; (iii)

student safety and legal compliance; and (iv) grading

standards and assessment fundamentals.

(g) The department is authorized to set the term of a

workforce teaching certificate and the process by which a

certificate may be renewed or terminated.

(h) The holder of a workforce teaching certificate

shall not be personally liable for acts or omissions

undertaken in good-faith performance of assigned instruction

or supervisory duties. This protection shall not apply to acts

of willful misconduct, malicious intent, or conduct outside

the scope of employment, and shall be administered consistent

with Section 16-28C-4, Code of Alabama 1975.

(i) Neither the department nor an eligible educational
Page 13

institution shall be liable for any acts of the qualified

employee.

Section 9. This act shall become effective on October
1, 2026.

Page 14
