SB62

U9E1CDD-1

By Senator Orr

RFD: Finance and Taxation Education

First Read: 13-Jan-26

Page 0

U9E1CDD-1 11/21/2025 JF (F)JF 2025-3447

SYNOPSIS:

This bill provides for the establishment of the

Alabama Charter School Finance Authority which shall

have the authority to issue bonds to provide funds to

make financing loans to public state charter

educational institutions.
This bill further provides that such public

state charter educational institutions shall secure the

payment of such financing loans from a dedicated source

of revenue.

A BILL

TO BE ENTITLED

AN ACT

To provide for the establishment of the Alabama Charter

School Finance Authority; to permit the authority to issue

bonds for the purpose of making financing loans to state

charter educational institutions to finance and refinance

project costs; and to require each state charter educational

institution that receives a financing loan to maintain a

dedicated source of revenue to repay such financing

loans.

BE IT ENACTED BY THE LEGISLATURE OF ALABAMA:
Page 1

Section 1. This chapter may be cited as the Alabama

Charter School Finance Authority Act.

Section 2. It is the intent of the Legislature by

passage of this chapter to enable the state, acting by and

through the authority, to aid state charter educational

institutions in the financing and refinancing of project costs

on a tax-exempt basis. To this end, the Legislature intends to

authorize the authority to issue bonds for the purpose of

providing funds to enable the authority to make loans to state

charter educational institutions to pay project costs; and to

provide that state charter educational institutions shall

secure the payment of such loans out of a dedicated source of

revenue. This article shall be liberally construed in

conformity with the intentions of the Legislature expressed

above.

Section 3. As used in this chapter, the following terms
have the following meanings:
(1) AUTHORITY. The Alabama Charter School Finance

Authority created by this chapter and any successor or

successors thereto. Any change in name or composition of the

authority shall in no way affect the vested rights of any

person under the provisions of this chapter.

(2) BOARD OF DIRECTORS. The board of directors of the
authority.
(3) BONDS. The bonds of the authority issued under the

provisions of this chapter, including revenue refunding bonds.

(4) COSTS. As applied to a project or any portion

thereof financed under the provisions of this chapter, all or
Page 2

any part of the cost of construction, acquisition, alteration,

enlargement, reconstruction, and remodeling of a project

including all lands, structures, real or personal property,

rights-of-way, franchises, easements, permits, approvals,

licenses, and certificates and the securing of such permits,

approvals, licenses, and certificates, and interests acquired

or used for or in connection with a project, the cost of

demolishing or removing any buildings or structures on land so

acquired, including the cost of acquiring any lands to which

such buildings or structures may be moved, the cost of all

machinery and equipment, financing charges, underwriters'

commissions or discounts, interest prior to, during, and for a

period of six months following estimated completion of such

construction and acquisition, provisions for reserves for

principal and interest and for extensions, enlargements,

additions, and improvements, the cost of architectural,

engineering, financing and legal services, plans,

specifications, studies, surveys, estimates of cost and

revenues, administrative expenses, expenses necessary or

incident to determining the feasibility or practicability of

constructing the project, and such other expenses as may be

necessary or incident to the construction and acquisition of

the project, the financing of such construction and

acquisition and placing of the project in operation. All funds

paid or advanced for any of the purposes aforesaid by any

institution prior to the issuance of any of the authority's

revenue bonds may be refunded to such institution out of the

proceeds of any revenue bonds so issued. Any obligation or
Page 3

expense incurred for any of the foregoing purposes shall be

regarded as a part of the cost of the project and may be paid

or reimbursed as such out of the proceeds of revenue bonds or

notes issued under the provisions of this chapter for such

project.

(5) FINANCING LOAN. A loan by the authority to a state

charter educational institution pursuant to the terms of this

chapter for the purpose of financing project costs incurred or

to be incurred by such state charter educational institution.

(6) PROJECT. A structure or structures available for

use as a dormitory or other student housing facility, a dining

hall, student union, administration building, academic

building, library, laboratory, research facility, classroom,

athletics facility, health care facility, maintenance, storage

or utility facility, and other structures or facilities

related thereto or required or useful for the instruction of

students or the conducting of research or the operation of an

institution, whether proposed, under construction or

completed, including parking and other facilities or

structures essential or convenient for the orderly conduct of

such institution, and shall also include landscaping, site

preparation, furniture, equipment, and machinery and other

similar items necessary or convenient for the operation of a

particular facility or structure in the manner for which its

use is intended, but shall not include any items the costs of

which are customarily deemed to result in a current operating

change.

(7) STATE. The State of Alabama.
Page 4

(8) STATE CHARTER EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION. Every public

state charter school according to state laws, heretofore or

hereafter established or acquired under statutory

authorization of the Legislature of Alabama and existing as a

public institution of learning supported in substantial part

by state appropriations, or by revenues derived from the

institution.

Section 4. There is hereby created a public body

corporate and politic to be known as the Alabama State Charter

School Finance Authority. Said authority shall not be a state

institution nor a department or agency of the state but shall

be a public instrumentality performing an essential

governmental function, being a distinct corporate entity. The

Governor or his or her designee shall be the president of the

authority, the Chair of the House Ways and Means Education

Committee shall be the vice president thereof, the State

Superintendent of Education shall be the secretary thereof,

the Chair of the Senate Finance and Taxation Education, the

State Finance Director, and the Executive Director of the

State Charter School Commission shall be members thereof. The

State Treasurer or any bank having trust powers or any trust

company shall be treasurer thereof, shall act as custodian of

its funds, and shall pay the principal of and interest on the

bonds of the authority out of the funds hereinafter provided

for. The members of the authority shall constitute all the

members of the board of directors of the authority, and any

three members of the said board of directors shall constitute

a quorum for the transaction of business. Should any person
Page 5

holding any state office named in this section cease to hold

such office by reasons of death, resignation, expiration of

his or her term of office, or for any other reason, then his

or her successor in office shall take his or her place as a

member, officer, or director, as the case may be, of the

authority. No member, officer, or director of the authority

shall draw any salary in addition to that now authorized by

law for any service he or she may render or for any duty he or

she may perform in connection with the authority. All

proceedings had and done by the board of directors shall be

reduced to writing by the secretary of the authority, shall be

signed by at least two members of the authority, and shall be

recorded in a substantially bound book and filed in the office

of the secretary. Copies of such proceedings, when certified

by the secretary of the authority, under the seal of the

authority, shall be received in all courts as prima facie

evidence of the matters and things therein certified. Members

of the authority shall not be personally liable for any

liability, loss, or expense suffered by the authority, unless

the liability, loss, or expense arises out of, or results

from, conduct described in Section 36-1-12.

Section 5. The authority shall have the following
powers:
(1) To adopt an official seal and alter the same at its
pleasure.
(2) To sue and be sued in contract and in tort and to
complain and defend in all courts of law and equity.
(3) To maintain an office at such a place or places as
Page 6

it may designate.

(4) To borrow money and to issue bonds for the purpose

of making loans to state charter educational institutions to

finance project costs, and to provide for the rights of the

purchasers, holders, or owners of such bonds.

(5) To make financing loans to any state charter

educational institution in order to finance project costs,

which financing loans may be evidenced or secured by loan

agreements, mortgage pledges, promissory notes, security

agreements, trust indentures, or such other instruments, and

upon such terms and conditions as the board of directors of

the authority shall determine to be reasonable.

(6) To arrange for various forms of security or credit

enhancement for its bonds, including letters of credit,

guaranties, policies of insurance, and the like.

(7) As security for the payment of the principal of and

interest on any financing loan made to a state charter

educational institution, to take a pledge of and security

interest in:

a. State monies;

b. Federal monies;

c. Local funds;

d. Mortgage pledge of facilities; or

e. Any other monies or revenues received by such state

charter educational institution.
(8) As security for the payment of the principal of and

interest on its bonds, to pledge the revenues, receipts,

funds, and other property out of which the financing loans
Page 7

made with the proceeds of its bonds are payable and to pledge,

transfer, and assign any repayment obligations of financing

loan recipients.

(9) As security for the payment of the principal of and

interest on any financing loan made to a state charter school

educational institution, the authority may provide for any

legally permitted intercept programs that would allow the

authority to intercept charter school revenues eligible to

make debt service payments on authority bonds prior to

operating funds.

(10) To collect such fees and charges in connection

with its financing loans and bonds including, but not limited

to, reimbursement of administrative costs, as the authority

shall determine to be reasonable.

(11) To make and execute contracts for the servicing of

financing loans made by the authority and to pay the

reasonable value of services rendered to the authority

pursuant to such contracts.

(12) To invest proceeds of the bonds of the authority

not required for immediate use in such manner as the board of

directors shall determine.

(13) To establish accounts in one or more depositories.

(14) To make, enter into, and execute such financing

agreements, loan agreements, contracts, or other instruments

and to take such other actions as may be necessary or

convenient to accomplish any purpose for which the authority

was organized or to exercise any power granted to it.

(15) To charge to and apportion among participating
Page 8

state charter educational institutions the administrative

costs and expenses incurred by the authority in the exercise

of the powers and duties conferred upon it by this chapter.

(16) To pledge or mortgage all or any portion of any

project costs conveyed to the authority for such purpose,

whether presently owned or subsequently acquired, for the

benefit of the holders of the bonds of the authority issued to

finance such project costs or any portion thereof or issued to

refund or refinance outstanding indebtedness of a state

charter educational institution permitted by this chapter.

(17) To issue bonds for the purpose of refunding or

refinancing outstanding bonds issued pursuant to this chapter

or outstanding obligations incurred by state charter

educational institutions for the purpose of financing or

refinancing project costs, whether or not such bonds or other

obligations are outstanding prior to or after the effective

date of this act, provided that such indebtedness was

originally incurred for the purpose of project costs as

defined in this chapter.

(18) To exercise any power granted by the laws of the

state to public institutions which is not in conflict with the

purpose of this article.

(19) To adopt administrative regulations necessary or

appropriate to effectuate its purpose and to administer the

program authorized herein.

Section 6. (a) The authority is authorized and

empowered to issue its bonds from time to time for the purpose

of making financing loans to finance project costs incurred or
Page 9

to be incurred by state charter educational institutions. Such

bonds may be in such an aggregate principal amount as the

board of directors shall determine to be necessary to pay the

project costs included in such financing. The authority may

pay from the proceeds of the sale of its bonds all expenses,

including publication and printing charges, attorney fees,

financial advisory fees, and other expenses which the board of

directors may deem necessary or advantageous in connection

with the authorization, advertisement, sale, execution, and

issuance of its bonds or the making of financing loans from

the proceeds thereof.

(b) All bonds issued by the authority shall be limited

obligations of the authority payable solely from any

combination of the following:

(1) The revenues, receipts, funds, and other property

of the authority derived from the repayment of financing loans

made with proceeds of such bonds.

(2) Amounts derived from any letter of credit,

insurance policy, or any other form of credit enhancement

applicable to the bonds or financing loans made from the

proceeds thereof.

(3) Any reserve fund, debt service fund, or other fund

established for the purpose of making or providing for the

payment of debt service on such bonds.

(4) Any earnings on the proceeds of bonds invested by
the authority pending their disbursement.
Bonds shall not be general obligations of the
authority, shall not be payable from any state appropriations,
Page 10

and shall not create a debt or obligation of the state.
(c) The principal of, premium, if any, and interest on

any bonds issued by the authority shall be secured by a pledge

of the revenues, receipts, funds, and other property out of

which the same may be payable and may be secured by a trust

indenture conveying as security for such bonds all or any part

of the property of the authority from which the revenues or

receipts so pledged may be so derived.

(1) The resolution of the board of directors under

which any bonds are authorized to be issued and any trust

indenture relating thereto may contain any agreements and

provisions respecting the collection and disposition of the

revenues and receipts subject to such trust indenture, the

creation and maintenance of special funds from such revenues

and receipts, the rights, duties, and remedies of the parties

to any such instrument and the parties for the benefit of whom

such instrument is made and the rights and remedies available

in the event of default, all as the board of directors shall

deem advisable. Any pledge made with respect to bonds shall be

valid and binding from the time such pledge is made; the

revenues, receipts, funds, and other properties so pledged

shall immediately be subject to the lien of such pledge

without any physical delivery thereof or further act; and the

lien of such pledge shall be valid and binding as against all

parties having claims of any kind against the authority

irrespective of whether any such parties have notice thereof.

Neither the resolution of the board of directors authorizing

the bonds nor any other instrument by which such a pledge is
Page 11

created need be recorded. Each pledge, agreement, or trust

indenture made for the benefit or security of any holders of

the bonds of the authority shall continue effective until the

principal of and interest on the bonds for the benefit of

which the same were made shall have been fully paid.

(2) In the event of default in such payment or in any

agreements of the authority made as a part of the contract

under which the bonds were issued, whether contained in the

proceedings authorizing the bonds or in any trust indenture

executed as security therefore, such default may be enforced

by writ of mandamus or any other available remedy under state

law.

(d) All bonds issued by the authority shall be signed

by the president or the vice president of the authority and

attested by its secretary, and the seal of the authority shall

be affixed thereto and attested to by the secretary. The

signatures of the president and the secretary may be facsimile

signatures, and a facsimile of the seal of the authority may

be imprinted on bonds if the board of directors provides for

the manual authentication of bonds by a trustee or paying

agent. Delivery of any bonds so executed shall be valid

notwithstanding any change in the officers of the authority or

in the seal of the authority after its delivery.

(e) Bonds may be executed and delivered by the

authority at any time and from time to time, shall be in such

form and denominations and of such tenor and maturities, shall

contain such provisions not inconsistent with the provisions

of this article, and shall bear such rate or rates of
Page 12

interest, payable and evidenced in such manner, or may bear no

interest, as may be provided by resolution of the board of

directors. Bonds of the authority may be sold at either public

or private sale in such manner and at such price or prices and

at such time or times as may be determined by the board of

directors to be most advantageous. The authority may pay all

fees, expenses, premiums, and commissions incurred in

connection with the issuance of any of its bonds. All bonds

shall be construed to be negotiable instruments although

payable solely from a specified source. The board of directors

may provide, in its discretion, that such bonds shall bear

interest at a rate or rates fixed at the time of the issuance

thereof, or at fixed rates which may be changed from time to

time during the term of such bonds in accordance with an

objective procedure determined by such board of directors at

the time of the issuance of such bonds, or at a floating rate

or rates which may change from time to time in connection with

published interest rates or indexes that reflect an objective

response to market changes and interest rates by banks,

governmental agencies, or other generally recognized public or

private sources of information concerning interest rates. The

board of directors may also provide, in its discretion, that

interest on such bonds may be payable in cash at fixed

intervals, or through one or more payments which reflect

compound interest computed at specified intervals on accrued

but unpaid interest, or through a discount in the sales price

for such bonds equivalent to compound interest on such bonds

for all or part of the term thereof, or through any
Page 13

combination of the foregoing methods of providing for the

payment of interest.

Section 7. (a) After making adequate provision for the

payment of the expenses of issuance, the authority is

authorized and empowered to use the proceeds of any bonds,

together with any other available funds: (i) to finance

project costs through financing loans to state charter

educational institutions, as herein authorized; (ii) to fund

such reserves as the authority deems necessary and desirable;

and (iii) to the extent not needed for the foregoing uses, to

pay or redeem such bonds.

(b) Pending the application of the proceeds of bonds to

the purpose or purposes of which such bonds were issued, such

proceeds may be invested by the authority in such manner,

consistent with the resolution pursuant to which such bonds

are issued, as the board of directors may deem advisable.

(c) Any and all revenues, receipts, investment

earnings, and other funds paid to, or otherwise coming into

the possession of, the authority as the result of financing

accomplished from the proceeds of bonds, shall be held,

deposited, administered, invested, and applied as provided in

the resolution of the board of directors authorizing the

issuance of such bonds and as provided in any trust indenture,

or other agreement delivered in connection therewith, or

otherwise as the authority may direct, consistent with the

provisions of such resolution, trust indenture, or other

agreement.

Section 8. (a) In order to provide for the funding of a
Page 14

financing loan by the authority to a state charter educational

institution, such state charter educational institution shall

establish a dedicated source of revenue to secure the

repayment of monies received from the authority.

(b) Such state charter educational institution is

hereby authorized and empowered, any existing statute to the

contrary notwithstanding, to do and perform any one or more of

the following:

(1) To obligate itself to pay to the authority at

periodic intervals a sum sufficient to provide for the payment

of debt service with respect to the bonds of the authority

issued to fund the financing loan made to such state charter

educational institution and to pay over such debt service to

the authority for the account of such state charter

educational institution.

(2) To levy, collect, and pay over to the authority and

to oblige itself to continue to levy, collect, and pay over to

the authority the proceeds of any revenue dedicated for the

purposes provided herein including, but not limited to:

a. State monies;

b. Federal monies;

c. Local funds;

d. Mortgage pledge; and

e. Any other monies or revenues received by such state

charter educational institution.

(3) To pledge as security for the payment of its

contractual obligation to the authority hereunder the proceeds

of any one or more of the sources specified in subdivision
Page 15

(2).
(4) To obligate itself to continue to levy and collect

such revenues, fees, charges, and taxes as shall equal not

less than 110 percent nor more than 125 percent, as determined

by the authority of the maximum principal and interest

maturing and coming due in any one year on the bonds issued by

the authority to fund the financing loan to such state charter

educational institution.

(5) To enter into such agreements, to perform such

acts, and to delegate such functions and duties as its

governing body shall determine to be necessary or desirable to

enable the authority to fund a financing loan to such state

charter educational institution.

Section 9. Any bonds issued by the authority may from

time to time be refunded by the issuance, by sale or exchange

of refunding bonds or obligations payable from the same or

different sources for the purpose of paying all or any part of

the principal of the bonds to be refunded, any redemption

premium required to be paid as a condition to the redemption

prior to maturity of any such bonds that are to be so redeemed

in connection with such refunding, any accrued and unpaid

interest on the bonds to be refunded, any interest to accrue

on each revenue bond to be refunded to the date on which it is

to be paid, whether at maturity or by redemption prior to

maturity, and the expenses incurred in connection with the

refunding; provided, that unless duly called for redemption

pursuant to provisions contained therein, the holders of any

such bonds then outstanding and proposed to be refunded shall
Page 16

not be compelled without their consent to surrender their

outstanding bonds for such refunding. Any refunded bonds or

obligations may be sold by the authority at public or private

sale at such price or prices as may be determined by the board

of directors to be most advantageous or may be exchanged for

the bonds to be refunded. Any such refunding bonds or

obligations may be executed and delivered by the authority at

any time and from time to time, shall be in such form and

denominations and have such tenor and maturities, shall

contain such provisions not inconsistent with the provisions

of this article, and shall bear such rate or rates of

interest, payable and evidenced in such manner, as may be

provided by resolution of the board of directors. Any

refunding bonds or obligations issued by the authority shall

be issued and secured in accordance with the provisions of

Section 6.

Section 10. The State Treasurer may invest any idle or

surplus money of the state in bonds of the authority. The

governing body of any county or municipality is authorized in

its discretion to invest any idle or surplus money held in its

treasury in bonds of the authority. Such bonds shall be legal

investments for executors, administrators, trustees, and other

fiduciaries, unless otherwise directed by the court having

jurisdiction of the fiduciary relation or by the document that

is the source of the fiduciary's authority, and for savings

banks and insurance companies organized under the laws of the

state.

Section 11. The property and income of the authority,
Page 17

all bonds issued by the authority, the income from such bonds

or from any other sources, the interest and other profits from

such bonds ensuring to and received by the holders thereof,

conveyances by and to the authority and leases, mortgages, and

deeds of trust by and to the authority shall be exempt from

all taxation in the State of Alabama. The authority shall not

be obligated to pay or allow the payment of any fees, taxes,

or costs to the Secretary of State or to any judge of probate

of any county in connection with the recording by it of any

document or otherwise, the authority being hereby exempted

from the payment of any such fees, taxes, and costs. No

license or excise tax may be imposed by any authority with

respect to the privilege of engaging in any of the activities

in this chapter.

Section 12. The authority's legal situs or residence

for the purpose of this chapter shall be Montgomery County.

Any action to protect or enforce any rights under the

provisions of this chapter shall be brought in the circuit

court of Montgomery County, Alabama, and said court shall have

exclusive original jurisdiction of all such actions.

Section 13. While any of the bonds issued by the

authority remain outstanding, the powers, duties, or existence

of the authority or of any of its officers shall not be

diminished or impaired in any manner that will affect

adversely the interest and rights of the holders of such

bonds. The provisions of this chapter shall be for the benefit

of the state, the authority, and the holders of any such

bonds, and, upon the issuance of the bonds as herein provided,
Page 18

such provisions shall constitute a contract with the holders

of such bonds. The provisions of any bond resolution,

indenture, or trust agreement shall be a contract with every

holder of such bonds, and the duties of the authority under

any such bond resolution, indenture, or trust agreement shall

be enforceable by any bondholder by mandamus or other

appropriate suit, action, or proceeding at law or in equity.

Section 14. All monies received by the authority

pursuant to this chapter shall be deemed to be trust funds for

the holders of the bonds and shall be held and applied for the

benefit of the bondholders of the respective issues as

provided in this chapter and as provided in the authorizing

resolutions of the authority.

Section 15. The provisions of this act are severable.

If any part of this act is declared invalid or

unconstitutional, such a declaration shall not affect the part

which remains.

Section 16. All laws or parts of laws which conflict
with this act are repealed.
Section 17. This act shall become effective on October
1, 2026.

Page 19
