House Bill 1302 (AS PASSED HOUSE AND SENATE)
By: Representatives Gambill of the 15th, Seabaugh of the 34th, Wade of the 9th, Dubnik of the
29th, Erwin of the 32nd, and others

A BILL TO BE ENTITLED
AN ACT

To amend Titles 20, 34, and 50 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, relating to

education, labor and industrial relations, and state government, respectively, so as to provide

for the reconstitution of the Office of Student Achievement as the Office of Education and

Workforce Strategy; to provide for responsibilities of the Office of Education and Workforce

Strategy and the director of said office; to change the name of the High Demand

Apprenticeship Program to the Top State for Talent Pre-Apprenticeship and Apprenticeship

Program; to repeal provisions for the Alliance of Education Agency Heads; to repeal a sunset

date relative to accessing HOPE scholarship funds for dual enrollment students; to provide

for a combined Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act Plan and Perkins State Plan; to

provide for registered apprenticeship programs; to designate the Technical College System

of Georgia as the state apprenticeship agency for the State of Georgia and provide for related

authority and responsibilities; to revise various reporting requirements; to revise various

certification requirements; to revise various requirements for rules and regulations; to

establish and provide for the Education Data Governance Board; to remove references to the

Office of Workforce Development; to provide for definitions; to provide for conforming

changes; to provide a short title; to provide for related matters; to repeal conflicting laws; and

for other purposes.

BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF GEORGIA:

SECTION 1.

This Act shall be known and may be cited as the "Education and Workforce Strategy Act."

SECTION 2.

Titles 20, 34, and 50 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, relating to education, labor

and industrial relations, and state government, respectively, are amended by replacing

"Office of Student Achievement" and "Office of Student Achievement's" with "Office of

Education and Workforce Strategy" and "Office of Education and Workforce Strategy's",

respectively, wherever the former phrases occur in said titles, except for subsection (a) of

Code Section 20-14-25, relating to creation, director, authority, seal, and administrative

assignment relative to the Office of Student Achievement.

SECTION 3.

Title 20 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, relating to education, is amended in

Article 4 of Chapter 1, relating to the Council on Literacy, by revising subsections (d) and

(e) of Code Section 20-1-42, relating to membership, terms, cooperation, and Literacy

Coach, as follows:

"(d) The Governor shall direct the Alliance of Education Agency Heads provided for in

Article 1 of Chapter 14 of this title to work with members of the council Reserved.

(e) The council shall be attached for administrative purposes only to the Office of

Education and Workforce Strategy Student Achievement. The Office of Education and

Workforce Strategy Student Achievement shall provide staff support for the council and

shall hire an individual to serve as Georgia Literacy Coach who shall be responsible for

coordination of such staff support and for working in coordination with the literacy related

efforts of the Alliance of Education Agency Heads. The Office of Education and

Workforce Strategy Student Achievement shall use any funds specifically appropriated to

support the work of the council for such purpose."

SECTION 4.

Said title is further amended in Part 4 of Article 6 of Chapter 2, relating to financing under

the "Quality Basic Education Act," by revising Code Section 20-2-161.4, relating to

accessing HOPE scholarship funds for dual enrolled students and reports, as follows:

"20-2-161.4.

(a)(1) Beginning July 1, 2023, each student participating in the Dual Enrollment program

provided for in Code Section 20-2-161.3 who is eligible for a HOPE grant pursuant to

Code Section 20-3-519.5 shall be allowed to access HOPE grant funds for eligible CTAE

courses, as defined in Code Section 20-2-161.3, irrespective of whether such student has

reached any maximum credit hour cap provided for in Code Section 20-2-161.3.

(2)(b) For three years beginning on July 1, 2023, the The Georgia Student Finance

Commission, in collaboration with the Technical College System of Georgia, shall collect

and report data on:

(A)(1) Student enrollment in and completion of at least one eligible CTAE course, as

defined in Code Section 20-2-161.3, as part of the Dual Enrollment program provided for

in Code Section 20-2-161.3;

(B)(2) HOPE grant funding and Dual Enrollment program funding, including, but not

limited to, the number of students who received such funding and the maximum, mean,

median, and mode amounts of such funding received by students;

(C)(3) Postsecondary credits earned by students who received such funding;

(D)(4) The number of students who enrolled in a postsecondary degree program after

completing a program of study that includes at least one eligible CTAE course, as defined

in Code Section 20-2-161.3, as part of the Dual Enrollment program provided for in Code

Section 20-2-161.3; and

(E)(5) The number of students employed in a high-demand field after completing a

focused program of study identified by the State Board of the Technical College System

of Georgia as part of the High Demand Top State for Talent Pre-Apprenticeship and

Apprenticeship Program provided for in Code Section 20-4-152 Article 7 of Chapter 4

of this title.

(c) No later than January 1 each year, the Georgia Student Finance Commission shall

provide an interim the report required by subsection (b) of this Code section to the

Governor, the President of the Senate, the Speaker of the House of Representatives, the

director of the Office of Planning and Budget, and the chairpersons of the House

Committee on Education, the Senate Education and Youth Committee, the House

Committee on Higher Education, and the Senate Higher Education Committee. A final

report shall be provided to the same no later than December 1, 2028.

(3)(d) The Georgia Student Finance Commission, in consultation with the State Board of

Education, and the State Board of the Technical College System of Georgia, and the Office

of Workforce Development, shall establish rules and regulations to implement the

provisions of this subsection Code section.

(b) This Code section shall stand repealed on June 30, 2028."

SECTION 5.

Said title is further amended in said part by revising Code Section 20-2-169, relating to

receipt of federal funds for career, occupational, or technical education, as follows:

"20-2-169.

(a) The Department of Education is designated as the sole state agency to receive federal

funds allotted to Georgia under acts of Congress appropriating federal funds for career,

occupational, or technical education; provided, however, that those funds appropriated for

the operation and management of postsecondary technical, adult, and industrial programs

shall be placed under the jurisdiction and control of the State Board of the Technical

College System of Georgia; provided, further, that a proportionate share of those federal

funds appropriated for planning, evaluation, program improvement, and other

administrative and discretionary purposes shall be placed under the jurisdiction and control

of such board.

(b) The Department of Education and the Technical College System of Georgia, with

assistance from the Office of Education and Workforce Strategy, shall prepare a combined

Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act Plan and Perkins State Plan in accordance with

federal law.

(c) The combined Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act Plan and Perkins State Plan

shall include:

(1) The incorporation of coordinated data from comprehensive local needs assessments

to align secondary, postsecondary, and adult workforce training programs with regional

labor market requirements and federal compliance standards for the Workforce

Innovation and Opportunity Act Plan and Perkins State Plan;

(2) The implementation of guidance from the United States Department of Labor and

United States Department of Education that recommends formal input from key

stakeholders, including, but not limited to:

(A)

educational institutions;

(B) Private sector employers and industry representatives; and

(C) Community based organizations and regional economic development entities; and

(3) The incorporation of additional coordinated efforts required by guidance from the

United States Department of Labor and United States Department of Education to ensure

the state remains eligible for federal funding, including the synchronization of

performance accountability measures and the streamlining of service delivery.

(d) The combined Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act Plan and Perkins State Plan

required by this Code section and any amendments thereto shall be approved by the State

Local workforce development boards and secondary and postsecondary

Workforce Development Board, submitted to the Governor, and distributed to the public

as required by federal law.

(e) Nothing in this Code section shall prohibit the Department of Education or the

Technical College System of Georgia from consulting its respective boards for the purpose

of preparing the combined Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act Plan and Perkins

State Plan as provided for in subsection (c) of this Code section."

SECTION 6.

Said title is further amended in Part 11 of said article, relating to regional educational service

agencies, by revising subsections (a) and (b) of Code Section 20-2-271, relating to

development of regional improvement plan, introduction of core services, instructional care

teams, and establishment of alternative methods of teacher certification, as follows:

"(a) Each regional educational service agency shall annually develop and submit to the

Department of Education for approval, with a copy to the Alliance of Education Agency

Heads Office of Education and Workforce Strategy, a regional plan for improvement of

educational efficiency and cost effectiveness of its member institutions. Each plan must

include the purposes and description of the services the regional educational service agency

will provide to schools identified as low-performing based on the indicators adopted under

Code Section 20-14-33 and to other schools.

(b) Each regional educational service agency shall introduce and provide core services for

member local school systems and schools and provide core services for purchase by local

school systems and schools which are not members of that regional educational service

agency. These core services shall include the following:

(1)

Section 20-2-281;

(2) Assistance specifically designed for any school that is rated academically failing

under Code Section 20-14-33;

Training and assistance in teaching each subject area assessed under Code

(3) Training and assistance to teachers, administrators, members of local boards of

education, and members of local school councils on school-based decision making and

control; and

(4) Assistance in complying with applicable state laws and rules of the State Board of

Education and the Alliance of Education Agency Heads.

Nothing in this Code section shall be construed to limit the freedom of a school system or

school to purchase or refuse to purchase any core service from any regional educational

service agency in this state."

SECTION 7.

Said title is further amended in Part 15 of said article, relating to miscellaneous provisions

under the "Quality Basic Education Act," by revising subsections (a), (b), and (c) of Code

Section 20-2-320, relating to state-wide comprehensive educational information system and

identification of data to implement Quality Basic Education Program, as follows:

"(a) There shall be a state-wide comprehensive educational information system which will

provide for the accurate, seamless, and timely flow of information from local and regional

education agencies, units of the University System of Georgia, and technical schools and

colleges to the state. The system design shall include hardware, software, data, collection

methods and times, training, maintenance, communications, security of data, and

installation specifications and any other relevant specifications needed for the successful

implementation of the system. The state-wide comprehensive educational information

system shall not use a student's social security number or an employee's social security

number in violation of state or federal law to identify a student or employee. Upon

approval of the boards of the respective education agencies, such boards shall issue

appropriate requests for proposals to implement a state-wide comprehensive educational

information system, subject to appropriation by the General Assembly. The boards of the

respective education agencies, at the direction of the Alliance of Education Agency Heads,

shall initiate contracts with appropriate vendors and local units of administration for the

procurement of services, purchase of hardware and software, and for any other purposes

upon the recommendation of the Office of Education and Workforce Strategy purpose as

directed by the Alliance of Education Agency Heads, consistent with appropriation by the

General Assembly.

(b) The State Board of Education, the State Board of the Technical College System of

Georgia, the Board of Regents of the University System of Georgia, and the Department

of Early Care and Learning shall require an individual student record for each student

enrolled which at a minimum includes the data specifications approved recommended by

the Office of Education and Workforce Strategy Alliance of Education Agency Heads. The

Professional Standards Commission shall maintain an individual data record for each

certificated person employed in a public school.

(c) For the purpose of this article, authorized educational agencies shall be the Department

of Education; the Department of Early Care and Learning; the Board of Regents of the

University System of Georgia; the Technical College System of Georgia; the Alliance of

Education Agency Heads; the Professional Standards Commission; the Office of Education

and Workforce Strategy Student Achievement; the education policy and research

components of the office of the Governor; the Office of Planning and Budget; the Senate

Budget and Evaluation Office; and the House Budget and Research Office.

information collected over the state-wide comprehensive educational information system,

including individual student records and individual personnel records, shall be accessible

by authorized educational agencies, provided that any information which is planned for

collection over the system but which is temporarily being collected by other means shall

also be accessible by authorized educational agencies and provided, further, that adequate

security provisions are employed to protect the privacy of individuals. All data maintained

for this system shall be used for educational purposes only. In no case shall information

be released by an authorized educational agency which would violate the privacy rights of

Any

any individual student or employee. Information released by an authorized educational

agency in violation of the privacy rights of any individual student or employee shall subject

the authorized educational agency to all penalties under applicable state and federal law.

Any information collected over the state-wide comprehensive educational information

system which is not stored in an individual student or personnel record format shall be

made available to the Governor and the House and Senate Appropriations Committees, the

House Committee on Education, the Senate Education and Youth Committee, the House

Committee on Higher Education, and the Senate Higher Education Committee, except

information otherwise prohibited by statute. Data which are included in an individual

student record or individual personnel record format shall be extracted from such records

and made available in nonindividual record format for use by the Governor, committees

of the General Assembly, and agencies other than authorized educational agencies."

SECTION 8.

Said title is further amended in Part 16 of said article, relating to college and career readiness

under the "Quality Basic Education Act," by revising paragraph (3) of subsection (c) of Code

Section 20-2-327, relating to recognition of advanced proficiency/honors courses and

counseling and development of individual college and career plans, as follows:

"(3) No later than December 31, 2026, and annually thereafter, the The Georgia Student

Finance Commission and the Department of Education shall annually collect and report

on information to verify compliance with this Code section. The report shall include the

percentage of students in ninth grade who create a GAfutures.org account and students

in grades ten through 12 who utilize a GAfutures.org account and be distributed to the

Office of Planning and Budget and the Office of Education and Workforce Strategy. The

report shall be included in the state-wide education and workforce plan provided for in

Code Section 20-14-29.2."

SECTION 9.

Said title is further amended in said part by revising subsection (b) of Code Section

20-2-327.1, relating to industry credentialing for career, technical, and agricultural education

programs and reporting, as follows:

"(b) No later than December 31, 2018, and annually thereafter, the Department of

Education, in coordination with the Office of Education and Workforce Strategy, shall

produce a return-on-investment report to the State Workforce Development Board and the

Office of Planning and Budget as related to grant funds provided for in subsection (j) of

Code Section 20-2-260. Such report shall include the current and projected regional

business and industry needs for the purpose of establishing annual goals and strategies to

increase attainment rates of industry credentialing, including the development of additional

industry credentials to enhance current industry certified programs."

SECTION 10.

Said title is further amended in Article 2 of Chapter 4, relating to technical and adult

education, by adding a new subsection to Code Section 20-4-17, relating to agencies to

receive federal funds and transfer of personnel to Department of Technical and Adult

Education, now known as Technical College System of Georgia, to read as follows:

"(c)(1) The Department of Education and the Technical College System of Georgia, with

assistance from the Office of Education and Workforce Strategy, shall prepare a

combined Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act Plan and Perkins State Plan in

accordance with federal law.

(2) The combined Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act Plan and Perkins State

Plan shall include:

(A)

assessments to align secondary, postsecondary, and adult workforce training programs

The incorporation of coordinated data from comprehensive local needs

with regional labor market requirements and federal compliance standards for the

Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act Plan and Perkins State Plan;

(B) The implementation of guidance from the United States Department of Labor and

United States Department of Education that recommends formal input from key

stakeholders, including, but not limited to:

(i)

educational institutions;

(ii) Private sector employers and industry representatives; and

(iii) Community based organizations and regional economic development entities;

and

(C) The incorporation of additional coordinated efforts required by guidance from the

United States Department of Labor and United States Department of Education to

ensure the state remains eligible for federal funding, including the synchronization of

performance accountability measures and the streamlining of service delivery.

Local workforce development boards and secondary and postsecondary

(3) The combined Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act Plan and Perkins State

Plan required by this subsection and any amendments thereto shall be approved by the

State Workforce Development Board, submitted to the Governor, and distributed to the

public as required by federal law.

(4) Nothing in this Code section shall prohibit the Department of Education or the

Technical College System of Georgia from consulting its respective boards for the

purpose of preparing the combined Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act Plan and

Perkins State Plan as provided for in subsection (c) of this Code section."

SECTION 11.

Said title is further amended in said article by replacing "work force" with "workforce" each

time the term appears in and by revising subsections (a), (c), and (g) of Code

Section 20-4-37, relating to the Office of College and Career Transitions and powers and

duties, as follows:

"(a)(1) It is the intent of the General Assembly to:

(A) Increase high school graduation rates, potential job opportunities, and educational

opportunities that will prepare students for success in college and the workplace;

(B) Establish intergovernmental cooperation between postsecondary institutions and

local boards of education and collaboration with business, industry, and community

stakeholders to aid relevant education programs informed by the High-Demand Career

List as provided in Code Section 34-14-3 and in the development and support of new

and existing college and career academies in Georgia;

(C) Assist in the development of academic and career ready curriculum;

(D) Establish and manage support grant opportunities and awards for new and existing

college and career academies;

(E) Establish a process that allows for college and career academy certification; and

(F) Collect and analyze data to evaluate the effectiveness of dual credit and dual

enrollment programs, secondary and postsecondary partnerships, and college and career

academics academies.

(2) The General Assembly finds that to accomplish these goals an office should be

established to coordinate the efforts of the various education agencies."

"(c) The Office of College and Career Academies shall be established within the Technical

College System of Georgia to coordinate the efforts by the Office of Education and

Workforce Strategy, the State Board of Education, the University System of Georgia, the

Technical College System of Georgia, and other not for profit postsecondary institutions

accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools in the professional

development, curriculum support, and development and establishment of college and career

academies."

"(g)(1) The office shall establish a certification process, in collaboration with the

Department of Education, for approval by the board. The office shall be authorized to

certify college and career academies. The State Board of Education shall accept

certification by the office as one component of determining compliance with charter and

strategic waivers school system or charter system contract requirements. The State Board

of Education may request supplemental information from charter petitioners, strategic

waivers school systems, or charter systems.

(2) Any certification process established pursuant to paragraph (1) of this subsection

shall require that the applicant demonstrates how the proposed or existing college and

career academy will increase student achievement and technical skill attainment, provide

for dual credit and dual enrollment opportunities, increase work based learning

opportunities, and address work force workforce development needs; articulates how the

collaboration between business, industry, and community stakeholders will advance work

force workforce development; demonstrates local governance and autonomy; and shows

other benefits that meet the needs of the students and community. The applicant shall

also demonstrate, as applicable, how the proposed or existing college and career

academy's use of the Accelerated Career Diploma Program, the Top State For Talent

Pre-Apprenticeship and Apprenticeship Program, and the High-Demand Career List as

provided in Code Section 34-14-3, specific to its region, will increase workforce

readiness.

(3) Certification by the office shall constitute a positive recommendation to the State

Board of Education for renewal of a charter school or charter system pursuant to Code

Section 20-2-2064.1 or an extension of a strategic waivers school system contract

pursuant to Article 4 of Chapter 2 of this title. A copy of the certification report shall be

provided to the State Board of Education by the office in order to communicate the

certification status of the applicant."

SECTION 12.

Said title is further amended in Article 7 of said chapter, relating to the high demand

apprenticeship program, by revising Code Section 20-4-150, relating to definitions, as

follows:

"20-4-150.

As used in this article, the term:

(1) 'Apprentice' means an individual at least 15 years of age, except where a higher

minimum age standard is otherwise set by law, who is employed to learn an occupation

in a registered apprenticeship program. a person who is at least 15 years of age, except

where a higher minimum age is required by law, who is employed in an eligible

apprenticeable occupation, and is registered in Georgia with the United States

Department of Labor Office of Apprenticeship.

(2) 'Apprenticeable occupation' means an occupation approved for apprenticeship by the

United States Department of Labor Office of Apprenticeship.

(3) 'Apprenticeship program' means a program registered with the United States

Department of Labor Office of Apprenticeship that includes terms and conditions for the

qualification, recruitment, selection, employment, and training of apprentices, including

the requirement for a written apprenticeship agreement.

(4)(3) 'Apprenticeship sponsor' means:

(A) Any entity operating an apprenticeship program; or

(B) Any entity in whose name an apprenticeship program is being operated that is

registered with or approved by the United States Department of Labor Office of

Apprenticeship.

(5)(4) 'Board' means the State Board of the Technical College System of Georgia.

(6)(5) 'Eligible apprenticeable occupation' means an apprenticeable occupation identified

by the State Workforce Development Board pursuant to Code Section 34-14-3 as a

high-demand career.

(7)(6)

apprenticeship sponsor and employs and trains an apprentice.

(8) 'Office of Workforce Development' means the Technical College System of Georgia's

Office of Workforce Development.

(7) ‘Pre-apprentice' means an individual at least 15 years of age, except where a higher

minimum age standard is otherwise set by law, who is employed to learn an occupation

in a registered pre-apprenticeship program, who is enrolled in a public school work based

learning program, and who is pursuing a technical college certificate from a unit of the

Technical College System of Georgia that is aligned with a registered apprenticeship

program.

(8)

apprenticeship program registered in accordance with 29 C.F.R. Sections 29 and 30 that

possesses an approved plan containing all terms and conditions for the qualification,

recruitment, selection, employment, and training of apprentices, as required under federal

law, including matters such as the requirement for a written apprenticeship agreement.

(9) 'Registered pre-apprenticeship program' or 'pre-apprenticeship program' means a

pre-apprenticeship program approved by the Technical College System of Georgia that

possesses an approved plan containing all terms and conditions for the qualification,

recruitment, selection, employment, and training of pre-apprentices, including matters

such as the requirement for a written pre-apprenticeship agreement."

'Employer sponsor' means an employer that coordinates with or is an

'Registered apprenticeship program' or 'apprenticeship program' means an

SECTION 13.

Said title is further amended in said article by revising Code Section 20-4-151, relating to

purpose, employer or apprenticeship sponsorships, required information, contracts, awards,

and limitations, as follows:

"20-4-151.

(a) Subject to appropriations of funds by the General Assembly for this purpose, the board,

in coordination with the Department of Labor, the Department of Economic Development,

the Department of Education, Office of Education and Workforce Strategy and the Office

of Planning and Budget, shall establish and administer a program through the Office of

Workforce Development Technical College System of Georgia to be called the High

Demand Apprenticeship Program Top State for Talent Pre-Apprenticeship and

Apprenticeship Program.

Pre-Apprenticeship and Apprenticeship Program is to incentivize pre-apprenticeship and

apprenticeship sponsors to establish new or grow existing registered pre-apprenticeship and

apprenticeship programs in Georgia in order to support the growth of pre-apprenticeship

or apprenticeship programs and expand high-quality work based learning experiences in

high-demand fields and careers for persons in Georgia to increase program utilization.

(b) An employer sponsor or pre-apprenticeship or apprenticeship sponsor may apply to the

board for the opportunity to enter into a contract to perform the requirements of conducting

an a pre-apprenticeship or apprenticeship program for a specific apprentice. Such contract

shall require the employer sponsor's apprentice, pre-apprenticeship, or apprenticeship

sponsor's apprentice to successfully complete an a pre-apprenticeship or apprenticeship

program.

(c) The board shall provide upon request and on the Technical College System of

Georgia's public website information about the High Demand Top State for Talent

Pre-Apprenticeship and Apprenticeship Program, the application, application instructions,

and the application period established each year for contracts for services available under

such program.

(d) Upon successful completion of the requirements of a contract under this article, the

board shall provide a contract completion award to the employer sponsor or

pre-apprenticeship or apprenticeship sponsor. The contract completion award amount shall

The purpose of the High Demand Top State for Talent

be determined based on the number of hours of education and training required for the

successful completion of the pre-apprenticeship or apprenticeship under such

pre-apprenticeship or apprenticeship program but shall not exceed:

(1) Ten thousand dollars per apprentice for contracts entered into before July 1, 2024;

and

(2) Five thousand dollars per apprentice for contracts entered into on or after July 1,

2024.

(e) Each employer sponsor or pre-apprenticeship or apprenticeship sponsor shall only be

eligible to enter into contracts under this article for up to:

(1) Five pre-apprentices or apprentices per year through the end of Fiscal Year 2024; and

(2) Ten pre-apprentices or apprentices per year beginning with Fiscal Year 2025 and

continuing each fiscal year thereafter.

(f) An A pre-apprenticeship or apprenticeship sponsor may assist with the application for

and completion of an a pre-apprenticeship or apprenticeship contract authorized by this

article.

(g)

Development Technical College System of Georgia shall be authorized to:

(1) Provide initial funding for up to $2,500.00 per apprentice of the amount provided for

in paragraph (2) of subsection (d) of this Code section; and

(2) Provide funding to award employer sponsors or apprenticeship sponsors up to

$2,500.00 per apprentice 12 months after the start of his or her pre-apprenticeship or

apprenticeship."

Beginning July 1, 2024, and continuing thereafter, the Office of Workforce

SECTION 14.

Said title is further amended in said article by revising Code Section 20-4-152, relating to

utilization of the High-demand Career List, as follows:

"20-4-152.

The board and the Office of Workforce Development shall utilize the High-demand

High-Demand Career List as provided for in Code Section 34-14-3 for purposes of the

High Demand Top State for Talent Pre-Apprenticeship and Apprenticeship Program."

SECTION 15.

Said title is further amended in said article by revising Code Section 20-4-153, relating to

annual reporting and cooperation from apprenticeship sponsor, as follows:

"20-4-153.

(a) The Office of Workforce Development Technical College System of Georgia shall

annually report on its website the following information:

(1) The total amount of compensation awarded under this article;

(2) The amount of compensation awarded in each field of high-demand careers identified

by the State Workforce Development Board pursuant to Code Section 34-14-3;

(3) The total number of contracts entered into and the number of contracts completed;

(4) The total number of contracts entered per eligible occupation and the number of those

completed;

(5) The total amount awarded overall with respect to each eligible occupation;

(6) The total number of pre-apprentices or apprentices who attended an institution of the

Technical College System of Georgia during the course of his or her pre-apprenticeship

or apprenticeship program; and

(7) The total number of apprentices who did not attend an institution of the Technical

College System of Georgia during the course of his or her pre-apprenticeship or

apprenticeship program.

(b) Each pre-apprenticeship and apprenticeship sponsor shall fully cooperate in providing

statistical information requested by the board or, at the board's discretion, be excluded from

participating in the High Demand Top State for Talent Pre-Apprenticeship and

Apprenticeship Program."

SECTION 16.

Said title is further amended in said article by revising Code Section 20-4-154, relating to

rules and regulations, as follows:

"20-4-154.

The board shall adopt rules and regulations deemed necessary for the implementation and

administration of this article, which shall include, but shall not be limited to, rules and

regulations for:

(1) Establishing a staff review and application approval process;

(2) Establishing an amount of funding that will place priority on the availability of

awards for the pre-apprenticeship program established by this article;

(2)(3) Application scoring criteria that shall include provisions that give priority to

pre-apprenticeship or apprenticeship programs that hire and train apprentices who are:

(A) Between 15 and 21 years of age Fifteen years of age or older in any public school

work based learning program; or

(B) Enrolled in an adult education program and engaged in obtaining a high school

diploma;

(3)(4) The minimum score necessary for approval of a contract; and

(4)(5) The terms of agreement between an employer sponsor or pre-apprenticeship or

apprenticeship sponsor and the board."

SECTION 17.

Said title is further amended in said article by revising Code Section 20-4-156, relating to

repealer, as follows:

"20-4-156.

This article shall stand repealed and reserved on July 1, 2027 2031."

SECTION 18.

Said title is further amended in Article 8 of said chapter, relating to the public service

apprenticeship program, by revising Code Section 20-4-160, relating to definitions, as

follows:

"20-4-160.

As used in this article, the term:

(1) 'Apprentice' means an individual at least 15 years of age, except where a higher

minimum age standard is otherwise set by law, who is employed to learn an occupation

in a registered apprenticeship program. a person who is at least 15 years of age, except

where a higher minimum age is required by law, who is employed in an eligible

apprenticeable occupation, and is registered in Georgia with the United States

Department of Labor Office of Apprenticeship.

(2) 'Apprenticeable occupation' means an occupation approved for apprenticeship by the

United States Department of Labor Office of Apprenticeship.

(3) 'Apprenticeship program' means a program registered with the United States

Department of Labor Office of Apprenticeship that includes terms and conditions for the

qualification, recruitment, selection, employment, and training of apprentices, including

the requirement for a written apprenticeship agreement.

(4)(3) 'Apprenticeship sponsor' means:

(A) Any entity operating an apprenticeship program; or

(B) Any entity in whose name an apprenticeship program is being operated that is

registered with or approved by the United States Department of Labor Office of

Apprenticeship.

(5)(4) 'Board' means the State Board of the Technical College System of Georgia.

(6)(5) 'Eligible apprenticeable occupation' means an apprenticeable occupation identified

by the State Workforce Development Board pursuant to Code Section 34-14-3 as a

high-demand career Office of Workforce Development pursuant to Code Section

20-4-152 as a high-demand job.

(7) 'Office of Workforce Development' means the Technical College System of Georgia's

Office of Workforce Development.

(8)(6) 'Public service sponsor' means a state or local government entity that coordinates

with or is an apprenticeship sponsor and employs and trains an apprentice.

(7) ‘Pre-apprentice' means an individual at least 15 years of age, except where a higher

minimum age standard is otherwise set by law, who is employed to learn an occupation

in a registered pre-apprenticeship program, who is enrolled in a public school work based

learning program, and who is pursuing a technical college certificate from a unit of the

Technical College System of Georgia that is aligned with a registered apprenticeship

program.

(8)

apprenticeship program registered in accordance with 29 C.F.R. Sections 29 and 30 that

possesses an approved plan containing all terms and conditions for the qualification,

recruitment, selection, employment, and training of apprentices, as required under federal

law, including matters such as the requirement for a written apprenticeship agreement.

(9) 'Registered pre-apprenticeship program' or 'pre-apprenticeship program' means a

pre-apprenticeship program approved by the Technical College System of Georgia that

possesses an approved plan containing all terms and conditions for the qualification,

recruitment, selection, employment, and training of pre-apprentices, including matters

such as the requirement for a written pre-apprenticeship agreement."

'Registered apprenticeship program' or 'apprenticeship program' means an

SECTION 19.
Said title is further amended in said chapter by adding a new article to read as follows:

"ARTICLE 10

20-4-200.

As used in this article, the term:

(1) 'Apprentice' means an individual at least 15 years of age, except where a higher

minimum age standard is otherwise set by law, who is employed to learn an occupation

in a registered apprenticeship program.

(2) 'Apprenticeship agreement' means a written agreement between an apprentice and

either the apprentice's program sponsor or an apprenticeship committee acting as an agent

for the program sponsor, which contains the terms and conditions of the employment and

training of the apprentice and which complies with the provisions of 29 C.F.R.

Section 29.7.

(3) 'Board' means the State Workforce Development Board.

(4) 'Commissioner' means the commissioner of the Technical College System of

Georgia.

(5) 'Pre-apprentice' means an individual at least 15 years of age, except where a higher

minimum age standard is otherwise set by law, who is employed to learn an occupation

in a registered pre-apprenticeship program, who is enrolled in a public school work based

learning program, and who is pursuing a technical college certificate from a unit of the

Technical College System of Georgia that is aligned with a registered apprenticeship

program.

(6)

apprenticeship program registered in accordance with 29 C.F.R. Sections 29 and 30 that

possesses an approved plan containing all terms and conditions for the qualification,

recruitment, selection, employment, and training of apprentices, as required under federal

law, including matters such as the requirement for a written apprenticeship agreement.

'Registered apprenticeship program' or 'apprenticeship program' means an

(7) 'Registered pre-apprenticeship program' or 'pre-apprenticeship program' means a

pre-apprenticeship program approved by the Technical College System of Georgia that

possesses an approved plan containing all terms and conditions for the qualification,

recruitment, selection, employment, and training of pre-apprentices, including matters

such as the requirement for a written pre-apprenticeship agreement.

(8) 'Secretary' means the United States Secretary of Labor.

(9) 'Sponsor' means any employer, employer association, labor organization, joint

labor-management organization, or other entity that operates or seeks to operate a

registered apprenticeship program.

(10) 'State apprenticeship agency' or 'registration agency' means a state apprenticeship

agency recognized by the United States Department of Labor and responsible for carrying

out the duties and powers of such agency pursuant to 29 C.F.R. Section 29.13 within this

state.

20-4-201.

(a)

apprenticeship agency for the state.

(b) The Technical College System of Georgia shall be responsible for carrying out all

duties and responsibilities of a registration agency as provided under Part 29 of Subtitle A

of Title 29 of the Code of Federal Regulations, subject to approval and ongoing oversight

by the United States Department of Labor.

(c) The commissioner shall submit to the Secretary and the administrator of the United

States Department of Labor's Office of Apprenticeship, in accordance with 29 C.F.R.

Section 29.13, an application to recognize the Technical College System of Georgia as a

state apprenticeship agency.

(d) Upon approval by the Secretary, the Technical College System of Georgia shall have

the authority within the state to:

The Technical College System of Georgia is hereby designated as the state

(1) Advance the establishment and growth of registered apprenticeship programs and

foster enrollment in apprenticeship programs by providing technical and compliance

assistance to sponsors, apprentices, employers, and apprenticeship programs;

(2) Register, oversee, and, when necessary, deregister registered apprenticeship programs

and related apprenticeship agreements;

(3) Issue recognized certificates of registration and completion;

(4) Serve as the primary state level point of contact with the United States Department

of Labor's Office of Apprenticeship;

(5) Develop and maintain a state policy of reciprocity with other states to ensure

registration of apprenticeship programs;

(6) Ensure compliance with federal and state apprenticeship standards; and

(7) Perform such other functions as required of a registration agency under federal law.

20-4-202.

Consistent with Part 29 of Subtitle A of Title 29 of the Code of Federal Regulations, the

Technical College System of Georgia as a state apprenticeship agency shall have the power

and duty to:

(1) Adopt, promulgate, and enforce rules and regulations necessary to implement this

article;

(2)

completion, suspension, and deregistration;

(3)

compliance investigations;

(4) Receive, investigate, and resolve complaints relating to registered apprenticeship

programs;

(5) Collect and report data required by the United States Department of Labor and the

General Assembly;

Establish apprenticeship standards governing program registration, operation,
Conduct program reviews, quality assurance assessments, monitoring, and

(6) Ensure that the registration of apprenticeship programs occurs only in occupations

provided in 29 C.F.R. Section 29.4, and in coordination with the state's High-Demand

Career List as provided in Code Section 34-14-3;

(7) Develop a nationally recognized state apprenticeship completion credential, as

described in 29 C.F.R. Section 29.5, for completing an apprenticeship program registered

with the Technical College System of Georgia;

(8) Provide technical assistance and guidance to current and prospective program

sponsors; and

(9) Coordinate apprenticeship activities with the board and local workforce development

areas as provided in Code Section 34-14-2, technical colleges, the Department of Labor,

the Department of Education, sponsors, registered apprenticeship programs, and other

relevant partners.

20-4-203.

The board shall serve as an adviser to the Technical College System of Georgia on matters

related to registered apprenticeship programs, without limiting or superseding the authority

of the Technical College System of Georgia as the registration agency.

20-4-204.

(a) This article shall be administered in a manner fully consistent with Part 29 of

Subtitle A of Title 29 of the Code of Federal Regulations and any other applicable federal

law or regulation governing registered apprenticeship.

(b) In the event of a conflict between this article and federal law or regulation, federal law

or regulation shall control to the extent of such conflict.

20-4-205.

(a) Upon recognition of the Technical College System of Georgia by the United States

Department of Labor as the state apprenticeship agency, all registered apprenticeship

programs operating in Georgia shall be reported to the Technical College System of

Georgia in accordance with a transition plan submitted by the commissioner and approved

by the Secretary.

(b) The state apprenticeship agency shall ensure continuity of registration and minimize

disruption to sponsors and apprentices during the transition."

SECTION 20.

Said title is further amended in Chapter 14, relating to education accountability, by repealing

and reserving Article 1, relating to Alliance of Education Agency Heads.

SECTION 21.

Said title is further amended in Part 1 of Article 2 of said chapter by revising Code Section

20-14-20, relating to definitions relative to education accountability assessment programs,

as follows:

"20-14-20.

As used in this article, the term:

(1) 'Alliance' means the Alliance of Education Agency Heads created in Article 1 of this

chapter.

(2)(1) 'Board of regents' means the Board of Regents of the University System of

Georgia.

(3)(2) 'Director' means the director of the Office of Student Achievement Education and

Workforce Strategy or, alternatively, the executive director of the Office of Education

and Workforce Strategy if the individual selected to serve as director is designated with

the title of executive director by the Governor.

(4)(3) 'Early intervention program' means the program established under Code Section

20-2-153.

(5)(4) 'Office' means the Office of Student Achievement Education and Workforce

Strategy."

SECTION 22.

Said title is further amended in Part 2 of said article, relating to the Office of Student

Achievement, by revising Code Section 20-14-25, relating to creation, director, authority,

seal, and administrative assignment, as follows:

"20-14-25.

(a) There is created Effective July 1, 2026, the Office of Student Achievement shall be

reconstituted as the Office of Education and Workforce Strategy and shall retain all duties,

responsibilities, functions, powers, and authority conferred upon the Office of Student

Achievement as provided by law in effect on June 30, 2026.

(b) The chief administrative and executive officer of the office shall be the director, who

shall be appointed by the Governor with the advice and consent of the Senate. As directed

by the Governor, the director shall coordinate the efforts of all state agencies and relevant

entities engaged in activities related to education, student achievement, talent development,

and workforce preparedness throughout the state. Subject to the general policy established

by the Alliance of Education Agency Heads, the The director shall be responsible for the

performance and exercise of the duties, responsibilities, functions, powers, and authority

imposed conferred upon the director and the office as provided by law. The director shall

receive a salary to be determined by the Governor.

(c) The director shall have the authority to employ all personnel of the office, subject to

the provisions of this part and all applicable provisions of other laws governing public

employment.

(d) The office may adopt a seal for its use and shall be authorized to enter into contracts

to fulfill its duties under this article.

(e) The office shall be assigned for administrative purposes only, as that term is defined

in Code Section 50-4-3, to the Office of Planning and Budget."

SECTION 23.

Said title is further amended in said part by revising Code Section 20-14-26, relating to

duties, as follows:

"20-14-26.

(a) The office shall have the following duties:

(1)

performance, rate schools and school systems, develop annual report cards for

elementary, middle, and secondary schools, and formulate a system of school awards and

interventions. The State Board of Education shall approve a single accountability system

for local schools and school systems that incorporates federal law, rules, and regulations

relating to accountability;

(2) To audit and inspect or cause to be audited or inspected for the purpose of

verification, research, analysis, reporting, or for other purposes related to the performance

of its powers and duties as provided in this article and for the purposes of auditing

pre-kindergarten, elementary, middle grades, and secondary education, postsecondary

education, and education work force workforce programs and schools, local school

systems, institutes, colleges, universities, regional educational service agencies, and other

public education programs and entities as defined by the alliance determined by the

director;

(3) To serve as staff to the alliance; and To oversee the cross-agency development of a

comprehensive state-wide education and workforce plan as provided in Code Section

20-14-29.2;

To create a single state-wide accountability system, establish indicators of

(4) To exercise the powers and discharge duties of the alliance, as set forth in Code

Section 20-14-8, under the supervision and oversight of the alliance. To assist the

Department of Education and the Technical College System of Georgia with creating the

combined Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act Plan and Perkins State Plan as

provided for in Code Sections 20-2-169 and 20-4-17; and

(5) To create the navigation tool as provided in Code Section 20-14-29.3.

(b) The member agencies of the alliance and other executive branch education and

workforce development departments, boards, and offices of this state shall cooperate fully

with the office and shall provide the office with all information that the alliance deems

necessary for the office to discharge its accountability duties under this article regarding

the education programs and units governed by such member agencies or other departments,

boards, or offices. These agencies shall share or integrate existing agency data and

technology systems to the extent permitted by state and federal law to improve alignment

and coordination and reduce duplication of efforts.

(c) The office shall convene and oversee regular meetings with the agencies provided for

in subsection (b) of this Code section for the purpose of ensuring effective collaboration,

data sharing, and alignment of duties required under this Code section."

SECTION 24.

Said title is further amended in said part by revising Code Section 20-14-27, relating to

required reports and publication format, as follows:

"20-14-27.

(a) The office shall submit prepare the following reports to the alliance:

(1) An annual report regarding pre-kindergarten education shall be submitted no later

than December 1 of each year, commencing December 1, 2002. The pre-kindergarten

report shall be an evaluation of the progress made on performance indicators identified

and defined by the office and approved by the alliance for all pre-kindergarten and child

care programs under the administrative control of the Department of Early Care and

Learning. The pre-kindergarten report shall include information concerning results of the

state's investment in each pre-kindergarten program;

(2) An annual report regarding elementary and secondary education shall be submitted

no later than December 1 of each year, commencing December 1, 2001. The elementary

and secondary education report shall be an evaluation of the progress made on

performance indicators identified and defined by the office and approved by the alliance

for all elementary and secondary education programs administered by the Department of

Education. The elementary and secondary education report shall include information

concerning results of the state's investment in each public school and each public school

system;

(3) An annual report regarding postsecondary education shall be submitted no later than

December 1 of each year, commencing December 1, 2002. The postsecondary education

report shall be an evaluation of the progress made on performance indicators identified

and defined by the office and approved by the alliance for all universities, colleges,

institutes, and schools in the University System of Georgia and under the governance of

the Technical College System of Georgia. The postsecondary education report shall

include information concerning results of the state's investment in each university,

college, institute, and school; and

(4) An annual report regarding the Georgia education work force workforce shall be

submitted no later than December 1 of each year, commencing December 1, 2002. The

Georgia education work force workforce report shall be an evaluation of the progress

made on performance indicators identified and defined by the office and approved by the

alliance for the education work force workforce status under the administrative control

of the Professional Standards Commission. The Georgia education work force workforce

report shall contain information on the results of the state's investments in teacher

preparation, educators' professional development, education leadership development,

in-field teaching, geographic teacher shortages, alternative routes to teacher certification,

and other general information and indicators on the quality of the education work force

workforce.

(b) Each report provided for in this Code section shall be published in a format that can

be easily understood by parents and other members of the community who are not

professional educators. Such reports shall be distributed to the Governor,; Lieutenant

Governor,; the Speaker of the House of Representatives,; the chairpersons of the Higher

Education committees of the Senate and House of Representatives, the House Education

Committee, and the Senate Education and Youth Committee,; and members of the state

education governing boards or commissions, and members of the alliance. The office shall

not be required to distribute copies of such reports to the members of the General Assembly

but shall notify such members of the availability of the reports in the manner which it

deems to be most effective and efficient. In addition, such reports shall be posted on the

website of the office."

SECTION 25.

Said title is further amended in said part by adding a new Code section to read as follows:

"20-14-29.1.

(a) The office shall develop a report detailing the alignment of policies, programs, and

practices of the State Board of Education, the Department of Education, the University

System of Georgia, the Technical College System of Georgia, and the Georgia Student

Finance Commission that promotes and advances the objectives of serving student needs,

avoiding duplication of mission, using state resources efficiently, and expanding

opportunities for postsecondary credential attainment.

(b) The office shall coordinate and collaborate with the Department of Education, the

University System of Georgia, and the Technical College System of Georgia to create the

report required by this Code section that shall include the following:

(1) A list of the courses articulated from the State Board of Education to the University

System of Georgia, the Technical College System of Georgia, and each private

postsecondary institution that is an eligible postsecondary institution, as such term is

defined in Code Section 20-3-519;

(2) A list of the courses approved by the Board of Regents of the University System of

Georgia and the State Board of the Technical College System of Georgia to be

transferrable between institutions of the university system and units of the technical

college system;

(3) Of the courses listed as provided for in paragraph (2) of this subsection, identification

of the university system baccalaureate degree program or programs for which each such

course has been approved by the Board of Regents of the University System of Georgia

to be a degree prerequisite;

(4) Of the courses listed as provided for in paragraph (2) of this subsection, identification

of the technical college system degree program or programs for which each such course

has been approved by the State Board of the Technical College System of Georgia to be

a degree prerequisite;

(5) A summary of efforts undertaken by the Technical College System of Georgia in

collaboration with the University System of Georgia to reduce barriers to degree

completion by students who have earned course credits in the University System of

Georgia, the Technical College System of Georgia, or both;

(6) A list of the courses approved by each private postsecondary institution that is an

eligible postsecondary institution, as such term is defined in Code Section 20-3-519, and

the State Board of the Technical College System of Georgia to be transferrable between

units of such private postsecondary institution and the technical college system;

(7) A list of the courses approved by each private postsecondary institution that is an

eligible postsecondary institution, as such term is defined in Code Section 20-3-519, and

the Board of Regents of the University System of Georgia to be transferrable between

units of such private postsecondary institution and the university system;

(8) A summary of efforts undertaken to develop plans and procedures for reverse

transfers. As used in this paragraph, the term "reverse transfer" means the process of

transferring the credits a student has earned from a four-year institution to any unit of the

Technical College System of Georgia from which a student has transferred so that such

credits will be available to such student for purposes of his or her enrollment in or

completion of programs offered by the Technical College System of Georgia;

(9) A summary of the efforts undertaken on behalf of the Technical College System of

Georgia, the University System of Georgia, and the State Board of Education to comply

with the requirements of subsection (b) of Code Section 20-4-20;

(10) A summary of efforts undertaken to align articulated, transferrable courses and

degree completion to the High-Demand Career List published by the State Workforce

Development Board as provided in Code Section 34-14-3, including the total number of

articulation agreements aligned to such list for the State Board of Education, the

University System of Georgia, and the Technical College System of Georgia;

(11) The number of students enrolled in programs of study provided for in subsection (a)

of Code Section 20-2-159.1 receiving articulated credit with the University System of

Georgia and the Technical College System of Georgia and which credits those students

receive; and

(12) Of the articulation agreements listed as provided for in paragraph (1) of this

subsection, identification of the number of articulated credits awarded, which institutions

awarded which credits, and the local school system or public school represented by the

students who earned such credits.

(c) The report required by this Code section shall be included in the state-wide education

and workforce plan provided for in Code Section 20-14-29.2.

(d) All relevant state agencies and educational institutions included in this process shall

cooperate in collecting and sharing data necessary for the preparation of the report required

by this Code section, subject to applicable privacy protections, within a predetermined time

frame as set by the data sharing agreement by the office."

SECTION 26.

Said title is further amended in said part by adding a new Code section to read as follows:

"20-14-29.2.

(a) As used in this Code section, the term 'participating agencies' means the Georgia

Student Finance Commission, the Technical College System of Georgia, the University

System of Georgia, the Department of Education, the Department of Labor, and the State

Workforce Development Board.

(b) The office shall develop a state-wide education and workforce plan in collaboration

with the participating agencies and any other agencies necessary to support the plan's

creation. The plan shall include:

(1) The programs, initiatives, and activities supporting the Governor's education and

workforce priorities and those outlined in this article and in the combined Workforce

Innovation and Opportunity Act Plan and Perkins State Plan as provided for in Code

Sections 20-2-169 and 20-4-17;

(2) A report on the effectiveness of employment, wage attainment, and retention of

students in programs that align with the High-Demand Career List as provided in Code

Section 34-14-3 and the return on investment report as provided in Code Section 34-14-4;

(3)

occupational credentials that are granted, issued, funded, or governed by the state,

including, but not limited to, diplomas, certificates, certifications, microcredentials,

digital badges, pre-apprenticeships, apprenticeships, licenses, and degrees of all types and

A comprehensive, updated collection of information on all educational and

levels. Such collection of information shall also identify those credentials that are aligned

to the High-Demand Career List as provided in Code Section 34-14-3; and

(4) The report provided for in Code Section 20-14-91.

(c) The time frame of the state-wide education and workforce plan shall coincide with the

time frame required by the combined Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act Plan and

Perkins State Plan as provided for in Code Sections 20-2-169 and 20-4-17.

(d) The office shall meet at least quarterly with the participating agencies and any other

agencies necessary to support the state-wide education and workforce plan's creation.

(e) Upon its completion, the state-wide education and workforce plan shall be presented

to the State Workforce Development Board for approval. Included in such presentation

shall be a report of progress made toward objectives included in the plan. Upon the plan's

approval by the State Workforce Development Board, the plan shall be submitted to the

Governor."

SECTION 27.

Said title is further amended in said part by adding a new Code section to read as follows:

"20-14-29.3.

(a) As used in this Code section, the term 'navigation tool' means a secure, user-friendly,

online platform that connects individuals with personalized academic and training

information, guidance, and resources provided by local public school systems, the

Technical College System of Georgia, the University System of Georgia, the Department

of Labor, the Georgia Student Finance Commission, and any other relevant entity.

(b) The office shall create a navigation tool for the purpose of assisting students, parents,

counselors, educators, and job seekers in identifying secondary, postsecondary, and

workforce training opportunities in this state.

(c) The navigation tool shall:

(1) Be a comprehensive inventory of all state approved education and training assets in

this state;

(2) Provide clear guidance on programs of study, financial aid options, and credentialing

opportunities aligned with careers, including, but not limited to, those identified on the

High-Demand Career List as provided in Code Section 34-14-3;

(3) Utilize existing agency data and technology systems to the extent permitted by state

and federal law for the purpose of improving program coordination and reduce

duplication of efforts;

(4) Include annual updates and enhancements to ensure accuracy, accessibility, ease of

use, and continued alignment with evolving workforce needs; and

(5) Provide any other relevant guidance as needed.

(d)

University System of Georgia, the Department of Labor, and the Georgia Student Finance

Commission shall provide the office with such data, technical assistance, program

information, and promotion of user awareness as are necessary for the operation of the

navigation tool and the successful implementation of this Code section. Each agency may

designate a liaison to fulfill the requirements of this subsection if necessary.

(e) The agencies listed in subsection (d) of this Code section shall ensure that any relevant

technology systems or platforms used by the agency are compatible with, and capable of

integrating with, the navigation tool."

The Department of Education, the Technical College System of Georgia, the

SECTION 28.

Said title is further amended in said part by adding a new Code section to read as follows:

"20-14-29.4.

(a) As used in this Code section, the term 'board' shall mean the Education Data

Governance Board.

(b) There is created within the office an Education Data Governance Board for the purpose

of coordinating state-wide education data governance.

(c) The board shall be composed of the following agency heads, or their designees:

(1) The Office of Education and Workforce Strategy;

(2) The Department of Education;

(3) The State Charter Schools Commission;

(4) The Technical College System of Georgia;

(5) The University System of Georgia;

(6) The Georgia Student Finance Commission;

(7) The Department of Early Care and Learning;

(8) The Professional Standards Commission;

(9) The Office of Planning and Budget;

(10) The Department of Labor; and

(11) Such other agency or entity that the board deems necessary for data collection.

(d) The board shall serve as the primary interagency forum for the coordination and

governance of cross-agency education and workforce data systems, including, but not

limited to, the state-wide longitudinal data system, and interagency data sharing agreements

and memoranda of understanding that enable the lawful sharing and appropriate use of data

among such agencies. In addition, the board shall:

(1) Establish shared standards, roles and responsibilities, and best practices for the

collection, use, privacy, security, stewardship, and quality of education and workforce

data used across agencies;

(2) Develop and maintain policies and coordinated timelines for data quality standards,

validation protocols, and cross-agency data collection, cleaning, sharing, and availability

to ensure accurate and timely reporting for accountability, research, and policy analysis;

(3) Promote alignment of data definitions, reporting standards, and interoperability

across agency data systems, where appropriate;

(4) Identify opportunities to reduce duplicative data collection and improve state and

federal reporting efficiency;

(5) Provide information and analysis to the Governor and the General Assembly on data

related issues impacting education and workforce policy;

(6)

system-wide data systems supporting state-wide accountability;

(7) Identify dependencies, sequencing, and agency-specific inputs necessary to support

accurate and timely cross-agency data use and reporting;

(8) Support lawful and ethical data sharing in compliance with all applicable state and

federal laws, including but not limited to the federal Family Educational Rights and

Privacy Act; and

(9) Provide a forum for resolving cross-agency data governance issues related to data

access, stewardship, and use.

(e) The office shall provide necessary staffing and support for the board, including

coordinating meetings and work groups related to cross-agency data systems, facilitating

the development of shared data governance frameworks and documents, and supporting

coordination among agencies contributing to or utilizing cross-agency data systems,

including the state-wide longitudinal data system.

(f) Nothing in this Code section shall be construed to:

(1) Transfer statutory authority from any agency represented on the board to another

agency or entity; or

(2) Require the disclosure of personally identifiable information, except as otherwise

permitted by law."

Provide governance, coordination, and guidance related to comprehensive,

SECTION 29.

Said title is further amended in Part 3 of said article, relating to accountability assessment,

by revising subsection (d) of Code Section 20-14-35, relating to office powers, on-site audits,

reporting findings and recommendations, and authorization of other school audits, as follows:

"(d) The auditors shall report to the local board of education, the local school council, and

appropriate school administrators and shall report findings and recommendations

concerning any necessary improvements or intervention strategies. School audit reports

shall be provided to the alliance and the State Board of Education."

SECTION 30.

Said title is further amended in Part 4 of said article, relating to postsecondary accountability

assessment program, by revising subsections (a) and (b) of Code Section 20-14-50, relating

to creation, adoption of performance measures, report cards, and audit, as follows:

"(a) The office shall create and the council shall adopt the rules and policies that support

a postsecondary accountability assessment program that is primarily performance based.

(b) The office shall develop and the council shall adopt performance measures and

indicators that provide the basis for an accountability report card annually on the University

System of Georgia and the Technical College System of Georgia."

SECTION 31.

Said title is further amended in Part 5 of said article, relating to the pre-kindergarten

accountability assessment program, by revising subsection (a) of Code Section 20-14-60,

relating to performance based accountability assessment program, annual accountability

report card, and audits, as follows:

"(a) The office, with the approval of the council, shall create and the Department of Early

Care and Learning shall adopt the rules and policies that support a pre-kindergarten

accountability assessment program that is primarily performance based."

SECTION 32.

Said title is further amended in Part 6 of said article, relating to the education work force

accountability assessment program, by replacing "work force" with "workforce" each time

the term appears in and by revising subsection (a) of Code Section 20-14-70, relating to

creation, adoption of performance measures, report cards, and audit, as follows:

"(a) The office, with the approval of the council, shall create and the Professional

Standards Commission shall adopt the rules and policies that support an education work

force workforce accountability assessment program that is primarily performance based."

SECTION 33.

Said title is further amended in Part 9 of said article, relating to the Career and Technical

Education Advisory Commission, by revising paragraph (1) of subsection (b) of Code

Section 20-14-91, relating to creation, membership, requirements, meetings, and

reimbursement, as follows:

"(b)(1) The commission shall consist of four members of the House of Representatives

to be appointed by the Speaker of the House, one of whom shall be from the House

Committee on Economic Development and Tourism, one of whom shall be from the

House Committee on Agriculture and Consumer Affairs, one of whom shall be from the

House Committee on Education, and one of whom shall be from the House Committee

on Higher Education; four members of the Senate to be appointed by the President of the

Senate, one of whom shall be from the Senate Economic Development and Tourism

Committee, one of whom shall be from the Senate Agriculture and Consumer Affairs

Committee, one of whom shall be from the Senate Education and Youth Committee, and

one of whom shall be from the Senate Higher Education Committee; three members who

are not members of the General Assembly to be appointed by the Governor; and three

members who are not members of the General Assembly to be appointed by the State

School Superintendent; the commissioner of the Technical College System of Georgia;

the director; the chairperson of the State Workforce Development Board; and the

chairperson of the State Board of Education."

SECTION 34.

Said title is further amended by replacing the term "Office of Workforce Development" with

"Technical College System of Georgia" wherever the former term appears.

SECTION 35.

Title 34 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, relating to labor and industrial relations,

is amended Chapter 14, relating to the State Workforce Development Board, by revising

Code Section 34-14-1, relating to creation of State Workforce Development Board, federal

composition requirements, meetings, promulgation of rules and regulations authorized, and

administration of programs, as follows:

"34-14-1.

(a)(1) Pursuant to Public Law 105-220 and any subsequent amendment to such law In

accordance with 29 U.S.C. Section 3111, the State Workforce Development Board is

hereby created established.

(2)

requirements. The Lieutenant Governor and the Speaker of the House of Representatives

shall each have the authority to appoint members as federal law allows. The Governor

shall be responsible for selecting the remainder of the members, who shall include the

following representatives of the Technical College System of Georgia and the

Department of Education: the commissioner of the Technical College System of Georgia,

the State School Superintendent, one member of the State Board of the Technical College

System of Georgia, and one member of the State Board of Education.

(3) The State Workforce Development Board's members' terms of service shall be

established by the Governor and shall be at the discretion of the appointing authority.

The State Workforce Development Board shall meet federal composition

(4) The State Workforce Development Board shall have powers and duties as specified

by the Governor and as provided for in federal law.

(5) The State Workforce Development Board shall be authorized to establish, alter, or

amend local workforce development areas in this state and shall be authorized to

promulgate rules implementing and governing such local workforce development areas

that are compliant with federal law.

(6) The State Workforce Development Board shall meet quarterly or when otherwise

requested by the chairperson and shall be governed by a set of bylaws which shall be

voted on and approved by the State Workforce Development Board.

(7) The State Workforce Development Board shall be funded by federal law.

(8) The State Workforce Development Board shall be authorized to promulgate rules and

regulations for purposes of implementing:

(A) The the state's workforce policy that are compliant with federal law; and

(B) The federal Workforce Pell Grant program, as defined by Section 83002 of

P.L. 119-21, to determine whether a Pell Grant-eligible postsecondary institution that

offers short-term programs in the state or enrolls students living in the state in a

short-term program meets the requirements under applicable law.

determination is subject to withdrawal based on criteria established by the State

Workforce Development Board.

Any such

(9) The State Workforce Development Board shall periodically review the conditions,

needs, issues, and problems related to the career and technical education program in order

to collaborate with the Office of Education and Workforce Strategy to create the

state-wide education and workforce plan provided for in Code Section 20-14-29.2.

(10) The State Workforce Development Board shall approve the combined Workforce

Innovation and Opportunity Act Plan and Perkins State Plan and any amendments thereto

as provided for in Code Sections 20-2-169 and 20-4-17.

(b)(1) The Technical College System of Georgia is designated as the administrator of all

programs for which the state is responsible pursuant to Public Law 105-220 and any

subsequent amendment to such law 29 U.S.C. Section 3111.

(2) The Technical College System of Georgia shall administer such programs and their

associated funds pursuant to the policies and methods of implementation which are

promulgated by the State Workforce Development Board and the Governor.

(3) In collaboration with the Technical College System of Georgia, the Office of

Education and Workforce Strategy is designated as the agency to support the State

Workforce Development Board in carrying out its responsibilities related to the

High-Demand Career List as provided in Code Section 34-14-3 and the return on

investment report as provided in Code Section 34-14-4.

(4) The Technical College System of Georgia shall be the authorized state entity to

administer the federal Workforce Pell Grant program, as defined by Section 83002 of

P.L. 119-21.

(c) The State Workforce Development Board shall be assigned to the Office of Education

and Workforce Strategy for board operational purposes, including but not limited to staff

support for fulfilling its duties. To ensure program alignment, the Technical College

System of Georgia and the Department of Education shall also provide the State Workforce

Development Board with the necessary resources and staff support to fulfill its duties."

SECTION 36.

Said title is further amended in said chapter by revising the introductory language of

subsection (a) of Code Section 34-14-3, relating to the High-demand Career List, as follows:

"34-14-3.

(a) The State Workforce Development Board Office of Education and Workforce Strategy

shall develop and approve a High-demand High-Demand Career List that shall identify

those careers most critical to the state's current and future workforce needs. As directed

by the Governor, the State Workforce Development Board Office of Education and

Workforce Strategy shall coordinate and collaborate with the Office of Student

Achievement State Workforce Development Board, the Department of Education, the

Department of Labor, the Technical College System of Georgia, the University System of

Georgia, and the Georgia Student Finance Commission to develop and implement a

data-driven methodology to determine which careers merit inclusion on High-demand

High-Demand Career List, regionally or state wide. The High-demand High-Demand

Career List shall:"

SECTION 37.

Said title is further amended in said chapter by revising Code Section 34-14-4, relating to

return of investment analysis of secondary and postsecondary programs, evaluation and

reporting requirements, and cooperation, as follows:

"34-14-4.

(a) The State Workforce Development Board Office of Education and Workforce Strategy

shall be responsible for oversight of a return on investment analysis to evaluate and report

on the effectiveness of secondary and postsecondary programs aligned with the priority

areas identified by the State Workforce Development Board and included on the

High-demand High-Demand Career List published by the State Workforce Development

Board as provided in Code Section 34-14-3.

(b) As directed by the Governor, the State Workforce Development Board Office of

Education and Workforce Strategy shall coordinate and collaborate with the Office of

Student Achievement State Workforce Development Board, the Department of Education,

the Department of Labor, the University System of Georgia, the Technical College System

of Georgia, the University System of Georgia, and the Georgia Student Finance

Commission to develop the return on investment methodology utilizing an analysis of data

sources that include, but are not limited to, existing federal and state resources, longitudinal

outcome tracking of student information, enrollment and program outcomes, and labor

market analysis.

(c) The evaluation and report required by this Code section shall include a comprehensive

review of student participation and outcomes, program alignment with labor market needs,

and recommendations for programmatic adjustments to better meet the needs of Georgia's

businesses, industries, and workforce and shall address, at a minimum, the following:

(1) The percentage of program graduates employed including retention rates and wage

growth over time;

(2) Comparison of graduates' average wages to state, national, and industry benchmarks,

with wage growth assessed at two-year, five-year, and ten-year intervals post-completion

postcompletion;

(3) The extent to which skills, certificates, licenses, diplomas, degrees, or other

credentials offered by the State Board of Education, the University System of Georgia,

and the Technical College System of Georgia align with the High-demand High-Demand

Career List published by the State Workforce Development Board as provided in Code

Section 34-14-3;

(4) The percentage of students, at both the secondary and post-secondary postsecondary

levels, that are obtaining any credentials identified in paragraph (3) of this subsection;

and

(5)

outcomes.

(d) The evaluation and report required by this Code section shall be:

(1) Approved by the State Workforce Development Board on or before December 1 of

each even-numbered year;

(2) Submitted by the State Workforce Development Board Office of Education and

Workforce Strategy to the Governor; the President of the Senate; the Speaker of the

House of Representatives; the respective chairs of the House Committee on Education,

Transparent information to stakeholders regarding program availability and

the Senate Education and Youth Committee, the House Committee on Higher Education,

and the Senate Higher Education Committee; and the Office of Planning and Budget; and

(3) Published on the public websites of the State Workforce Development Board, the

Office of Student Achievement Office of Education and Workforce Strategy, the

Department of Education, the University System of Georgia, the Technical College

System of Georgia, and the Georgia Student Finance Commission on or before December

of each even-numbered year.

(e) All state agencies and political subdivisions of the state, including postsecondary

education educational institutions and local school systems, shall cooperate in collecting

and sharing all data and other pertinent information necessary for the implementation of

the evaluation and preparation of the report required by this Code section, subject to

applicable privacy protections, within a predetermined time frame as set by the State

Workforce Development Board Office of Education and Workforce Strategy. Such

agencies and political subdivisions shall use the findings of the report to recommend

continuation, modification, or discontinuation of programs to better align with workforce

needs.

(f) The purpose of this Code section is to ensure the effective use of state resources,

prepare Georgians for high-demand career pathways, and support the state's economic

development by fostering a workforce aligned with employer needs."

SECTION 38.

Said title is further amended in said chapter by repealing Code Section 34-14-5, relating to

reporting on the alignment of policies, programs, and practices of the State Board of

Education, the Department of Education, the University System of Georgia, the Technical

College System of Georgia, and the Georgia Student Finance Commission, requirements, and

cooperation.

SECTION 39.

(a) Except as provided in subsection (b) of this section, this Act shall become effective on

July 1, 2026.

(b) Section 19 of this Act shall become effective on January 1, 2027.

SECTION 40.
All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this Act are repealed.
