Senate Bill 148
By: Senators Hatchett of the 50th and Rahman of the 5th

AS PASSED
A BILL TO BE ENTITLED
AN ACT

To amend Chapter 2 of Title 20 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, relating to

elementary and secondary education, so as to provide that local boards of education shall be

authorized to provide instruction in hunting safety in grades six through 12; to provide for

the adoption of content standards by the State Board of Education; to provide that local

boards of education may establish a curriculum in hunting safety; to provide for instructor

requirements; to provide for an outdoor learning spaces pilot program; to provide for a pilot

program evaluation and report; to remove the requirement of having a licensed physician in

automated external defibrillator programs; to increase from three to five the number of

accumulated sick leave days teachers and other school personnel may take each school year

for personal or professional reasons; to provide for related matters; to repeal conflicting laws;

and for other purposes.

BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF GEORGIA:

SECTION 1.

Chapter 2 of Title 20 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, relating to elementary and

secondary education, is amended in Part 14 of Article 6, relating to other educational

programs under the "Quality Basic Education Act," by revising Code Section 20-2-308,

which is reserved, as follows:

"20-2-308.

(a) Beginning in the 2026-2027 school year, each local board of education shall be

authorized to provide instruction in hunting safety in grades six through 12, which

instruction may be incorporated into an existing course of study.

(b) No later than April 1, 2026, the State Board of Education shall adopt content standards

for such instruction in hunting safety.

(c) Each local board of education shall be authorized to establish a curriculum for

instruction in hunting safety, which curriculum shall be based on the hunter education

courses offered by the Department of Natural Resources.

(d) Instruction in hunting safety offered pursuant to this Code section shall be taught by

an individual who is certified as a hunter education instructor by the Department of Natural

Resources. Reserved."

SECTION 2.

Said chapter is further amended in Article 11, relating to public school property and facilities,

by adding a new part to read as follows:
"Part 4

20-2-590.

(a) The Department of Education is authorized to establish a pilot program, beginning in

the 2025-2026 school year, to provide for the development and study of outdoor learning

spaces on elementary and secondary school property. The purpose of the pilot program

shall be to determine whether and how to implement best practices and design standards

for outdoor learning spaces.

(b) The Department of Education is authorized to select elementary or secondary schools

with sufficient existing or potential outdoor learning spaces for participation in the pilot

program as pilot schools. Private, nonprofit, and local school system funding may be

utilized by such pilot schools for community engagement, school grounds design support,

and capital construction costs. The local board of education for each pilot school shall

agree to implement a program to incorporate outdoor learning spaces into the existing

curriculum and to continue to provide such program for a period no shorter than three

years.

(c) The Department of Education shall provide for an evaluation regarding the success and

impact of the pilot program upon completion of the third year of the pilot program and

shall report the results of such evaluation to the House Committee on Education and the

Senate Education and Youth Committee."

SECTION 3.

Said chapter is further amended by revising Code Section 20-2-775, relating to automated

external defibrillators required in high schools, requirements, and funding, as follows:

"20-2-775.

(a) As used in this Code section, the term:

(1) 'Automated external defibrillator' means a defibrillator which:

(A) Is capable of cardiac rhythm analysis;

(B) Will charge and be capable of being activated to deliver a countershock after

electrically detecting the presence of certain cardiac dysrhythmias; and

(C) Is capable of continuously recording cardiac dysrhythmia at the scene with a

mechanism for transfer and storage or for printing for review subsequent to use.

(2) 'Emergency action plan' means the plan established pursuant to paragraph (5) of

subsection (c) of this Code section to provide for an emergency response to a person in

cardiac arrest.

(3) 'Internal response team' means the team of school personnel established pursuant to

paragraph (7) (6) of subsection (c) of this Code section responsible for oversight of an

emergency response to a person in cardiac arrest and implementation of the emergency

action plan.

(4) 'School' means a public school in this state which provides K-12 education.

(b) No later than July 1, 2025, each school in this state shall have at least one functional

automated external defibrillator on site at such school at all times and easily accessible

during all school hours and during any school related function, including athletic practices,

athletic competitions, and other occasions where students and others will be present, for

use during emergencies.

(c) Each school shall:

(1) Ensure that each member of the internal response team and any other expected users

of the automated external defibrillator receive American Heart Association or American

Red Cross training in cardiopulmonary resuscitation and automated external defibrillator

use or complete an equivalent nationally recognized course;

(2) Notify the appropriate emergency medical services system of the existence and

location of each automated external defibrillator prior to said automated external

defibrillator being placed in use;

(3) Ensure that the automated external defibrillator is maintained and tested according

to the manufacturer's operational guidelines;

(4) Ensure that there is involvement of a licensed physician or other person authorized

by the Georgia Composite Medical Board in the site's automated external defibrillator

program to ensure compliance with requirements for training, notification, and

maintenance;

(5)(4) Establish a written emergency action plan that adheres to nationally recognized

standards and that establishes specific steps to take during a cardiac emergency in a

school setting. Such plan shall be designed to provide for an effective system for

communication between members of the internal response team and other school

officials, ensuring that the internal response team or other designated personnel activate

the emergency medical services system as soon as reasonably possible after any person

renders emergency care or treatment to a person in cardiac arrest by using an automated

external defibrillator and report any clinical use of the automated external defibrillator

to the licensed physician or other person authorized by the Georgia Composite Medical

Board who is supervising the program, and ensuring that emergency medical services

personnel are led directly to the exact location of the person in cardiac arrest;

(6)(5) Beginning in the 2025-2026 school year and each school year thereafter, conduct

a minimum of two emergency action plan practice drills per school year, with at least one

per semester. One such practice drill may be a tabletop drill to walk through a

hypothetical scenario and the courses of action a school will need to take before, during,

and after a cardiac emergency. The emergency action plan practice drills shall include

various locations on school grounds and responses to different hypothetical situations;

(7)(6) Establish a designated internal response team composed of:

(A) At least five school staff members;

(B) One or more designated team leads trained in cardiopulmonary resuscitation and

automated external defibrillator use and responsible for oversight of an emergency

response;

(C)

cardiopulmonary resuscitation and automated external defibrillator use;

(D) One or more designated automated external defibrillator leads, responsible for

knowing the location of automated external defibrillators, retrieving automated external

defibrillators, and maintenance of automated external defibrillators; and

(E) One or more designated communication leads responsible for activating the

emergency medical services system, facilitating directions to the person in cardiac

One or more designated cardiopulmonary resuscitation leads trained in

arrest for emergency medical services personnel upon arrival at the school, and

coordinating communications with the designated team lead or leads; and

(8)(7) Apprise all school personnel of the location of automated external defibrillators

and the members of the internal response team.

(d) Subject to appropriations by the General Assembly, the Department of Education shall

provide funds to local school systems to assist in the purchase of automated external

defibrillators pursuant to this Code section.

(e) The department and local school systems shall use diligent efforts to identify private

sources of funding or donation of funding and equipment to meet the requirements of this

Code section."

SECTION 4.

Said chapter is further amended by revising Code Section 20-2-851, relating to use of

accumulated sick leave for personal or professional reasons, as follows:

"20-2-851.

During any school year, personnel may utilize up to a maximum of three five days of any

accumulated sick leave for the purpose of absenting themselves from their duties for

personal or professional reasons if prior approval of their absence is given by the local

school superintendent or his or her authorized representative; provided, however, that the

absence is not in conflict with a local board of education policy concerning school days on

which the presence of the personnel requesting absence is essential for effective school

operation. No grant of approval for an absence permitted under this Code section shall be

conditioned upon disclosure of the specific purpose for which such absence is sought, nor

shall any such grant of approval be withheld or denied because of the failure or refusal of

personnel to disclose the specific purpose for which such an absence is sought; provided,

however, that personnel may be requested to state whether the absence is sought under the

category of 'personal' or 'professional' absence."

SECTION 5.

All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this Act are repealed.
