Senate Bill 589
By: Senators Brass of the 6th, Hickman of the 4th, Hatchett of the 50th, Anavitarte of the
31st, McNeel of the 18th and others
AS PASSED
A BILL TO BE ENTITLED
AN ACT

To amend Code Section 20-2-150 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, relating to

eligibility for enrollment, program assignments for students, and student social security

numbers, so as to provide for parents and guardians to elect for their children who have

attained the age of four or five to be enrolled in a voluntary pre-kindergarten program

provided and operated as part of Georgia's Pre-K Program; to provide for parents and

guardians of students who are eligible for initial public school enrollment in first grade to

elect for their children to be enrolled in kindergarten rather than first grade; to amend Part 3

of Article 16 of Chapter 2 of Title 20 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, relating to

student health in elementary and secondary education, so as to enact the "You Are Not Alone

Awareness Act"; to require public schools that issue student identification badges to include

certain information about the 9-8-8 crisis response hotline on such badges; to provide for an

effective date and applicability; to provide for related matters; to repeal conflicting laws; and

for other purposes.

BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF GEORGIA:

SECTION 1.

Code Section 20-2-150 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, relating to eligibility for

enrollment, program assignments for students, and student social security numbers, is

amended by adding new subsections to read as follows:

"(b.1) Notwithstanding any other provision of law to the contrary, each child who attains

the age of either four or five by September 1 shall be eligible for enrollment in a voluntary

pre-kindergarten program provided and operated as part of Georgia's Pre-K Program, and

each such child shall be enrolled in such program at the request of his or her parent or

guardian; provided, however, that this paragraph shall not be construed or applied to

require or permit a child to be enrolled in such a program for more than one year; and,

provided, further that children ages four and five shall be treated on the same basis relative

to selection for available seats in such programs.

(b.2) Notwithstanding any other provision of law to the contrary, each child enrolling in

a state supported education program for the first time who, by virtue of his or her age and

date of birth, is eligible for enrollment in the first grade of a state supported primary grades

program pursuant to this Code section or Code Section 20-2-150 shall be enrolled in a state

supported kindergarten program at the request of his or her parent or guardian."

SECTION 2.

Part 3 of Article 16 of Chapter 2 of Title 20 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated,

relating to student health in elementary and secondary education, is amended by enacting a

new Code section to read as follows:

"20-2-779.5.

(a) This Code section shall be known and may be cited as the 'You Are Not Alone

Awareness Act.'

(b) Each local school system or public school that issues student identification badges to

students in any of grades six through 12 shall cause to be printed on any such badges that

are issued on or after July 1, 2026, '9-8-8 - You are not alone. Right now, anyone

experiencing a suicidal crisis, emotional distress, or challenges with substance abuse should

call or text 9-8-8. The hotline is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, and 365 days a

year.'"

SECTION 3.

This Act shall become effective on July 1, 2026, and shall apply to all school years beginning

with the 2026-2027 school year.

SECTION 4.
All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this Act are repealed.
