As Amended by Senate Committee
Session of 2026

SENATE BILL No. 513
By Committee on Ways and Means
2-17

AN ACT concerning child care subsidy; relating to the Kansas department
for children and families and the Kansas office of early childhood;
directing such department, in consultation with such office, to issue a
request for information and a request for proposal for the development,
procurement and implementation of software to provide child care
subsidy payments to child care providers; requiring reports to the
legislature on such development, procurement and implementation.
Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Kansas:
Section 1. (a) The Kansas department for children and families, in
coordination with the Kansas office of early childhood, shall administer
the child care subsidy program, in accordance with K.S.A. 39-709, and
amendments thereto, through the development, procurement and
implementation of a modern child care subsidy management and payment
system capable of supporting the direct payment of child care subsidy to
eligible child care providers participating in the Kansas child care subsidy
program and providing care to eligible child care subsidy recipients. Such
system shall include, but not be limited to:
(1) A child care provider login and portal that permits such providers
to manage service records and payments;
(2) capability for integration with existing state eligibility
determination, licensing and financial systems;
(3) secure communication tools for child care providers and state
agency staff;
(4) a help desk or customer assistance function for child care
providers; and
(5) program monitoring and integrity functionality for state program
administrators.
(b) On or before January 1, 2027, the Kansas department for children
and families, in coordination with the Kansas office of early childhood,
shall issue a request for information from private vendors on a modern
child care subsidy management and payment system. Such request for
information issued by such department shall seek information on:
(1) System functionality and technical specifications;
(2) options for modular or phased implementation;
(3) estimated one-time and ongoing costs;

SB 513—Am. by SC

(4) experience with federal child care and development fund
requirements; and
(5) an estimated timeline for statewide implementation.
(c) On or before June 30, 2027, the Kansas department for children
and families shall submit a written report to the legislative coordinating
council and the house of representatives committees on appropriations and
health and human services and the senate committees on ways and means
and public health and welfare, or any successor committee. Such report
shall include:
(1) A summary of responses to the request for information;
(2) estimated costs for procurement, implementation and
maintenance;
(3) recommendations regarding issuance of a request for proposal
including a procurement timeline not to exceed one calendar year from the
submission of the report;
(4) a proposed implementation timeline; and
(5) any statutory changes necessary to support direct-to-provider
payments.
(d) Upon submission of such report required in subsection (c) and
subject to appropriations and applicable federal funds, or a combination
thereof, the Kansas department for children and families, in coordination
with the Kansas office of early childhood, shall issue a request for
proposal for the development, procurement and implementation of such
system described in subsection (a).
Sec. 2. This act shall take effect and be in force from and after its
publication in the statute book Kansas register.
