MISSISSIPPI LEGISLATURE

REGULAR SESSION 2026

By:

To:

Senator(s) McLendon

Education

SENATE BILL NO. 2298

AN ACT TO ENACT THE "I BELIEVE ACT"; TO REQUIRE THE SCHOOL
BOARD OF EACH SCHOOL DISTRICT TO ADOPT A POLICY REGARDING DAILY,
VOLUNTARY PARTICIPATION IN PRAYER AND BIBLE READING BY STUDENTS;
TO BRING FORWARD SECTION 37-12-9, MISSISSIPPI CODE OF 1972, FOR
THE PURPOSE OF POSSIBLE AMENDMENT; AND FOR RELATED PURPOSES.

BE IT ENACTED BY THE LEGISLATURE OF THE STATE OF MISSISSIPPI:

SECTION 1.

(1)

This section shall be known and may be cited

as the "I Believe Act."
(2)

The school board of each school district shall adopt a

policy regarding daily, voluntary participation in prayer and

Bible reading by students.

SECTION 2.

Section 37-12-9, Mississippi Code of 1972, is

brought forward as follows:
37-12-9.

(1)

To ensure that the school district does not

discriminate against a student's publicly stated voluntary

expression of a religious viewpoint, if any, and to eliminate any

actual or perceived affirmative school sponsorship or attribution

to the district of a student's expression of a religious

viewpoint, if any, a school district shall adopt a policy, which
S. B. No. 2298
PAGE 1 (icj\kr)

*SS36/R791.1*

~ OFFICIAL ~

G1/2

must include the establishment of a limited public forum for

student speakers at all school events at which a student is to

publicly speak.

must also require the school district to:

(a)

The policy regarding the limited public forum

Provide the forum in a manner that does not

discriminate against a student's voluntary expression of a

religious viewpoint, if any, on an otherwise permissible subject;

(b)

Provide a method, based on neutral criteria, for

the selection of student speakers at school events and graduation

ceremonies;

(c)

Ensure that a student speaker does not engage in

obscene, vulgar, offensively lewd or indecent speech; and

(d)

State, in writing, orally, or both, that the

student's speech does not reflect the endorsement, sponsorship,

position or expression of the district.

(2)

The school district disclaimer required by subsection

(1)(d) of this section must be provided at all graduation

ceremonies.

disclaimer at any other event in which a student speaks publicly

for as long as a need exists to dispel confusion over the

district's nonsponsorship of the student's speech.

(3)

The school district must also continue to provide the

Student expression on an otherwise permissible subject

may not be excluded from the limited public forum because the

subject is expressed from a religious viewpoint.

S. B. No. 2298
PAGE 2 (icj\kr)

*SS36/R791.1*

~ OFFICIAL ~

(4)

All school districts shall adopt and implement a local

policy regarding a limited public forum and voluntary student

expression of religious viewpoints.

voluntarily adopts and follows the model policy governing

voluntary religious expression in public schools as provided by

subsection (5) of this section, the district is in compliance with

the provisions of this chapter covered by the model policy.

If a school district

(5)

Model policy governing voluntary religious expression in

public schools.

policy adopted by the school district that is substantially

similar to the following:

In this section, "model policy" means a local

ARTICLE I

STUDENT EXPRESSION OF RELIGIOUS VIEWPOINTS

The school district shall treat a student's voluntary

expression of a religious viewpoint, if any, on an otherwise

permissible subject in the same manner the district treats a

student's voluntary expression of a secular or other viewpoint on

an otherwise permissible subject and may not discriminate against

the student based on a religious viewpoint expressed by the

student on an otherwise permissible subject.

ARTICLE II

STUDENT SPEAKERS AT NONGRADUATION EVENTS

The school district hereby creates a limited public forum for

student speakers at all school events at which a student is to

publicly speak.

For each speaker, the district shall set a

S. B. No. 2298
PAGE 3 (icj\kr)

*SS36/R791.1*

~ OFFICIAL ~

maximum time limit reasonable and appropriate to the occasion.

Student speakers shall introduce:

(a)

Football games;

(b)

Any other athletic events designated by the

(c)

Opening announcements and greetings for the school

(d)

Any additional events designated by the district,

district;

day; and

which may include, without limitation, assemblies and pep rallies.

The forum shall be limited in the manner provided by this

article.
Only those students in the highest two (2) grade levels of

the school and who hold one (1) of the following positions of

honor based on neutral criteria are eligible to use the limited

public forum:

highest grade level in the school, captains of the football team,

and other students holding positions of honor as the school

district may designate.

student council officers, class officers of the

An eligible student shall be notified of the student's

eligibility, and a student who wishes to participate as an

introducing speaker shall submit the student's name to the student

council or other designated body during an announced period of not

less than three (3) days.

beginning of the school year, at the end of the preceding school

year so student speakers are in place for the new year, or, if the
S. B. No. 2298
PAGE 4 (icj\kr)

The announced period may be at the

*SS36/R791.1*

~ OFFICIAL ~

selection process will be repeated each semester, at the beginning

of each semester or at the end of the preceding semester so

speakers are in place for the next semester.

volunteering student speakers shall be randomly drawn until all

names have been selected, and the names shall be listed in the

order drawn.

chronologically to the event for which the student will be giving

the introduction.

time for all introductions of events that week, or rotate after

each speaking event, or otherwise as determined by the district.

The list of student speakers shall be chronologically repeated as

needed, in the same order.

process each semester rather than once a year.

The names of the

Each selected student will be matched

Each student may speak for one (1) week at a

The district may repeat the selection

The subject of the student introductions must be related to

the purpose of the event and to the purpose of marking the opening

of the event, honoring the occasion, the participants, and those

in attendance, bringing the audience to order, and focusing the

audience on the purpose of the event.

designated, a student must stay on the subject, and the student

may not engage in obscene, vulgar, offensively lewd or indecent

speech.

expression of a religious viewpoint, if any, on an otherwise

permissible subject in the same manner the district treats a

student's voluntary expression of a secular or other viewpoint on

an otherwise permissible subject and may not discriminate against

The subject must be

The school district shall treat a student's voluntary

S. B. No. 2298
PAGE 5 (icj\kr)

*SS36/R791.1*

~ OFFICIAL ~

the student based on a religious viewpoint expressed by the

student on an otherwise permissible subject.

For as long as there is a need to dispel confusion over the

nonsponsorship of the student's speech at each event in which a

student will deliver an introduction, a disclaimer shall be stated

in written or oral form, or both, such as, "The student giving the

introduction for this event is a volunteering student selected on

neutral criteria to introduce the event.

introduction is the private expression of the student and does not

reflect the endorsement, sponsorship, position or expression of

the school district."

The content of the

Certain students who have attained special positions of honor

in the school have traditionally addressed school audiences from

time to time as a tangential component of their achieved positions

of honor, such as the captains of various sports teams, student

council officers, class officers, homecoming kings and queens,

prom kings and queens, and the like, and have attained their

positions based on neutral criteria.

eliminates the continuation of the practice of having these

students, irrespective of grade level, address school audiences in

the normal course of their respective positions.

district shall create a limited public forum for the speakers and

shall treat a student's voluntary expression of a religious

viewpoint, if any, on an otherwise permissible subject in the same

manner the district treats a student's voluntary expression of a
S. B. No. 2298
PAGE 6 (icj\kr)

*SS36/R791.1*

Nothing in this policy

The school

~ OFFICIAL ~

secular or other viewpoint on an otherwise permissible subject and

may not discriminate against the student based on a religious

viewpoint expressed by the student on an otherwise permissible

subject.

ARTICLE III

STUDENT SPEAKERS AT GRADUATION CEREMONIES

The school district hereby creates a limited public forum

consisting of an opportunity for a student to speak to begin

graduation ceremonies and another student to speak to end

graduation ceremonies.

maximum time limit reasonable and appropriate to the occasion.

The forum shall be limited in the manner provided by this

For each speaker, the district shall set a

article.

Only students who are graduating and who hold one (1) of the

following neutral criteria positions of honor shall be eligible to

use the limited public forum:

officers of the graduating class, the top three (3) academically

ranked graduates, or a shorter or longer list of student leaders

as the school district may designate.

otherwise have a speaking role in the graduation ceremonies is

ineligible to give the opening and closing remarks.

the eligible volunteering students will be randomly drawn.

first name drawn will give the opening and the second name drawn

will give the closing.

S. B. No. 2298
PAGE 7 (icj\kr)

student council officers, class

*SS36/R791.1*

A student who will

~ OFFICIAL ~

The names of
The

The topic of the opening and closing remarks must be related

to the purpose of the graduation ceremony and to the purpose of

marking the opening and closing of the event, honoring the

occasion, the participants, and those in attendance, bringing the

audience to order, and focusing the audience on the purpose of the

event.

In addition to the students giving the opening and closing

remarks, certain other students who have attained special

positions of honor based on neutral criteria, including, without

limitation, the valedictorian, will have speaking roles at

graduation ceremonies.

shall set a maximum time limit reasonable and appropriate to the

occasion and to the position held by the speaker.

purpose, the district creates a limited public forum for these

students to deliver the addresses.

must be related to the purpose of the graduation ceremony, marking

and honoring the occasion, honoring the participants and those in

attendance, and the student's perspective on purpose, achievement,

life, school, graduation, and looking forward to the future.

For each speaker, the school district

For this

The subject of the addresses

The subject must be designated for each student speaker, the

student must stay on the subject, and the student may not engage

in obscene, vulgar, offensively lewd or indecent speech.

school district shall treat a student's voluntary expression of a

religious viewpoint, if any, on an otherwise permissible subject

in the same manner the district treats a student's voluntary
S. B. No. 2298
PAGE 8 (icj\kr)

*SS36/R791.1*

~ OFFICIAL ~

The

expression of a secular or other viewpoint on an otherwise

permissible subject and may not discriminate against the student

based on a religious viewpoint expressed by the student on an

otherwise permissible subject.

A written disclaimer shall be printed in the graduation

program that states, "The students who will be speaking at the

graduation ceremony were selected based on neutral criteria to

deliver messages of the students' own choices.

each student speaker's message is the private expression of the

individual student and does not reflect any position or expression

of the school district or the board of trustees, or the district's

administration, or employees of the district, or the views of any

other graduate.

the student volunteers, and the district refrained from any

interaction with student speakers regarding the student speakers'

viewpoints on permissible subjects."

The content of

The contents of these messages were prepared by

ARTICLE IV

RELIGIOUS EXPRESSION IN CLASS ASSIGNMENTS

Students may express the students' beliefs about religion in

homework, artwork, and other written and oral assignments free

from discrimination based on the religious content of the

students' submission.

by ordinary academic standards of substance and relevance and

against other legitimate pedagogical concerns identified by the

school.

Homework and classroom work shall be judged

Students may not be penalized or rewarded on account of

S. B. No. 2298
PAGE 9 (icj\kr)

*SS36/R791.1*

~ OFFICIAL ~

religious content.

If a teacher's assignment involves writing a

poem, the work of a student who submits a poem in the form of a

prayer (for example, a psalm) should be judged on the basis of

academic standards, including literary quality, and not penalized

or rewarded on account of its religious content.

ARTICLE V

FREEDOM TO ORGANIZE RELIGIOUS GROUPS AND ACTIVITIES

Students may organize prayer groups, religious clubs, "see

you at the pole" gatherings, and other religious gatherings

before, during and after school to the same extent that students

are permitted to organize other noncurricular student activities

and groups.

school facilities for assembling as is given to other

noncurricular groups, without discrimination based on the

religious content of the group's expression.

that meet for nonreligious activities are permitted to advertise

or announce the groups' meetings, for example, by advertising in a

student newspaper, putting up posters, making announcements on a

student activities bulletin board or public address system, or

handing out leaflets, school authorities may not discriminate

against groups that meet for prayer or other religious speech.

School authorities may disclaim sponsorship of noncurricular

groups and events, provided they administer the disclaimer in a

manner that does not favor or disfavor groups that meet to engage

in prayer or other religious speech.

Religious groups must be given the same access to

S. B. No. 2298
PAGE 10 (icj\kr)

*SS36/R791.1*

If student groups

~ OFFICIAL ~

SECTION 3.

This act shall take effect and be in force from

and after July 1, 2026.

S. B. No. 2298
PAGE 11 (icj\kr)

~ OFFICIAL ~
ST: I Believe Act; enact to require school
boards to adopt policies on daily, voluntary
student prayer and Bible reading.

*SS36/R791.1*
