GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF NORTH CAROLINA
SESSION 2025
H

H.B. 56
Feb 4, 2025
HOUSE PRINCIPAL CLERK

D
HOUSE BILL DRH40048-MT-17

Short Title:

Publish Central Office Employment Information.

Sponsors:

Representative Paré.

(Public)

Referred to:

A BILL TO BE ENTITLED
AN ACT TO REQUIRE LOCAL BOARDS OF EDUCATION TO PUBLISH
COMPENSATION AND POSITION INFORMATION FOR CENTRAL OFFICE
EMPLOYEES.
The General Assembly of North Carolina enacts:
SECTION 1.(a) G.S. 115C-320 reads as rewritten:
"§ 115C-320. Certain records open to inspection.Publication and inspection of certain
records.
(a)
For purposes of this section, the term "central office employees" refers to
superintendents, assistant superintendents, associate superintendents, directors/coordinators,
supervisors, finance officers, all personnel categorized as central office employees by the
Department of Public Instruction or the local school administrative unit, and any permanent
employee of the local school administrative unit or employee of a third-party contractor with the
local school administrative unit that is not assigned to a school campus.
(a)(a1) Each local board of education shall maintain a record of each of its employees,
showing the following information with respect to each employee:
(1)
Name.
(2)
Age.
(3)
Date of original employment or appointment.
(4)
The terms of any contract by which the employee is employed whether written
or oral, past and current, to the extent that the board has the written contract
or a record of the oral contract in its possession.
(5)
Current position.
(6)
Title.
(7)
Current salary.compensation, including salary supplements, bonuses,
reimbursements, and allowances.
(8)
Date and amount of each increase or decrease in salary compensation with
that local board of education.
(9)
Date and type of each promotion, demotion, transfer, suspension, separation,
or other change in position classification with that local board of education.
(10) Date and general description of the reasons for each promotion with that local
board of education.
(11) Date and type of each dismissal, suspension, or demotion for disciplinary
reasons taken by the local board of education. If the disciplinary action was a
dismissal, a copy of the written notice of the final decision of the local board

*DRH40048-MT-17*

General Assembly Of North Carolina

Session 2025

education setting forth the specific acts or omissions that are the basis of the
dismissal.
The office or station to which the employee is currently assigned.

(12)
…
(b1) No later than August 15, 2025, and annually thereafter, each local board of education
shall publish and maintain on its website all of the following information:
(1)
For each central office employee:
a.
Total compensation from all funding sources, including at least the
following:
1.
Salary.
2.
Salary supplements and bonuses.
3.
Reimbursements and allowances, including reimbursements
and allowances related to travel.
b.
Position title.
c.
Position description.
d.
The date the position was created.
e.
The department, unit, or office of the local school administrative unit
in which the position is located.
(2)
The title of each central office employee position in the local school
administrative unit and the number of positions associated with that title.
(3)
For each department, unit, or office of the local school administrative unit:
a.
The number of central office employees located in that department,
unit, or office.
b.
The number of central office employees for each position title.
(c)
Subject only to rules and regulations for the safekeeping of records adopted by the
local board of education, every person having custody of the records shall permit them to be
inspected and examined and copies made by any person during regular business hours. The name
of a participant in the Address Confidentiality Program established pursuant to Chapter 15C of
the General Statutes shall not be open to inspection and shall be redacted from any record released
pursuant to this section. Any person who is denied access to any record for the purpose of
inspecting, examining or copying the record shall have a right to compel compliance with the
provisions of this section by application to a court of competent jurisdiction for a writ of
mandamus or other appropriate relief."
SECTION 1.(b) The title of Article 21A of Chapter 115C of the General Statutes
reads as rewritten:
"Article 21A.
"Privacy of Employee Personnel Records."
SECTION 2. This act is effective when it becomes law.

Page 2

DRH40048-MT-17
