SB118

YMV1F2N-1

By Senator Bell

RFD: Veterans, Military Affairs and Public Safety

First Read: 13-Jan-26

Page 0

YMV1F2N-1 12/18/2025 GED (L)ma 2025-3730

SYNOPSIS:

This bill would mandate certain agencies to

collect biometric identifiers and provide for their

dissemination.

This bill would authorize the use of certain

approved biometric identification devices by law

enforcement officers to identify individuals.

This bill would establish and provide for the
operation of the Alabama Background Check Service.
This bill would provide for approved uses and

types of background checks for noncriminal justice

purposes.

This bill would authorize the Alabama State Law

Enforcement Agency (ALEA) to establish and collect fees

for background checks for noncriminal justice purposes.

This bill would establish the Alabama Rap Back
Program.
This bill would provide penalties for the misuse
of a background check report.
This bill would make various changes to update

terminology and would make nonsubstantive, technical

revisions to update the existing code language to

current style.

This bill would also repeal provisions of law
prohibiting the unauthorized release of criminal
Page 1

history information.

A BILL

TO BE ENTITLED

AN ACT

Relating to the Alabama Justice Information Commission;

to amend Sections 41-9-590, 41-9-594, 41-9-625, and 41-9-650,

Code of Alabama 1975, to mandate the collection and

dissemination of biometric identifiers by certain entities; to

authorize the use of certain approved biometric identification

devices by law enforcement officers to identify individuals;

to establish and provide for the operation of the Alabama

Background Check Service; to add Sections 41-9-650.1,

41-9-650.2, 41-9-650.3, 41-9-650.4, and 41-9-650.5 to the Code

of Alabama 1975, to authorize the Alabama State Law

Enforcement Agency (ALEA) to perform authorized background

checks for noncriminal justice purposes; to provide for

approved types and uses of background checks for noncriminal

justice purposes; to authorize the Secretary of ALEA to

establish and collect fees for background checks for

noncriminal justice purposes; to establish the Alabama Rap

Back Program; to provide penalties for the misuse of a

background check report; to make conforming changes to update

terminology; to make nonsubstantive, technical revisions to

update the existing code language to current style; and to

repeal Article 4 of Chapter 2 of Title 32, Code of Alabama
Page 2

1975, regarding the dissemination of criminal history

information.

BE IT ENACTED BY THE LEGISLATURE OF ALABAMA:

Section 1. Sections 41-9-590, 41-9-594, 41-9-625, and

41-9-650, Code of Alabama 1975, are amended to read as

follows:

"§41-9-590

When used in this article, the following terms shall

have the following meanings, respectively, unless the context

clearly indicates a different meaning:

(1) AJIC or COMMISSION. The Alabama Justice Information
Commission.

(2) ALEA. The Alabama State Law Enforcement Agency.

(3) ALEA CJIS. The Criminal Justice Information

Services Division of ALEA.
(4) BACKGROUND CHECK. A report produced by one or more

information systems within ALEA that identifies a specific

individual's criminal history record within the state criminal

history repository. The report may also include criminal

history record information from the national criminal history

repository maintained by the FBI or other public

safety-related information maintained or accessed through the

authority of ALEA.

(5) CRIMINAL HISTORY RECORD INFORMATION. Information

collected by criminal justice agencies on individuals

consisting of identifiable descriptions, including

fingerprints and other biometric information, and notations of

arrests, detentions, indictments, or other formal charges, and
Page 3

any disposition arising therefrom, including acquittal,

sentencing, correctional induction, supervision, or release.

The term does not include identification information such as

fingerprint records if the information does not indicate the

individual's involvement with the criminal justice system.

(3)(6) CRIMINAL JUSTICE AGENCIES. Federal, state,

local, and tribal public agencies that perform substantial

activities or planning for activities relating to the

identification, apprehension, prosecution, adjudication, or

rehabilitation of civil, traffic, and criminal offenders.

(4)(7) CRIMINAL JUSTICE INFORMATION. Data necessary for

criminal justice Information based upon data under the

authority of ALEA or AJIC necessary for criminal justice and

public safety agencies to perform their duties and enforce

existing law missions. This term includes, but is not limited

to, biometrics, business, biometric, identity history, person,

organization, and property, when accompanied by any personally

identifiable information, bond conditions and provisions, an

individual's identity history data, biographic information,

case/incident case or incident history reportsdata, and any

other data deemed criminal justice information by the FBI CJIS

Security Policy. The term also includes ALEA-provided or FBI

CJIS-provided data necessary to make hiring decisions. In

addition, the term may refer to the ALEA CJIS-provided or FBI

CJIS-provided data necessary for civil agencies to perform

their missions, including, but not limited to, data used to

make hiring decisions.

(5)(8) CRIMINAL JUSTICE INFORMATION SERVICES DIVISION
Page 4

or FBI CJIS. The division of the Federal Bureau of

Investigation that equips law enforcement, national security,

and intelligence community partners with needed criminal

justice information The Criminal Justice Information Services

Division of the FBI that is responsible for the collection,

warehousing, and timely dissemination of relevant criminal

justice information to the FBI and to qualified law

enforcement, criminal justice, civilian, academic, employment,

and licensing agencies.

(9) FBI. The Federal Bureau of Investigation.

(10) IDENTITY HISTORY DATA. Textual data that

corresponds with an individual's biometric data, providing a

history of criminal and civil events for the identified

individual.

(6)(11) INFORMATION SYSTEM. A system of people, data,

and processes, whether manual or automated, established for

the purpose of managing information.

(7)(12) NLETS. Network provider The national

organization that provides for the exchange of criminal

justice and public safety information among multiple between

state, federal, and international criminal justice and public

safety agencies.

(8)(13) NLETS SYSTEM AGENCY or NSA. The state agency

responsible for the administration of the NLETS network

information provided by NLETS to criminal justice and public

safety agencies within this state and who provides a

representative from the state for the governance of NLETS.

(14) NONCRIMINAL JUSTICE PURPOSE. The uses of criminal
Page 5

history records for purposes authorized by federal or state

law other than purposes relating to the administration of

criminal justice, including employment suitability, licensing

determinations, immigration and naturalization matters, and

national security clearances.

(9)(15) OFFENSE. Any act that is a felony, misdemeanor,

state violation, municipal ordinance violation, or violation,

or an act of delinquency.

(16) RAP BACK. A system that enables authorized

entities to receive ongoing status notifications of any

criminal history reported by ALEA or the FBI on individuals

whose fingerprints are registered in the ALEA CJIS biometric

identity repository or the FBI CJIS national fingerprint file.

(10)(17) SECRETARY. The Secretary of the Alabama State
Law Enforcement Agency.

(11) SBI. The State Bureau of Investigation.

(12)(18) USER AGENCY. Any agency or entity that

subscribes to, accesses, or views any ALEA information system

or service provided under the authority of this article."

"§41-9-594

(a) The commission shall establish its own adopt rules

and policies for the performance of the responsibilities

charged to it in under this article. Unless otherwise stated,

the rules of the commission are subject to the Administrative

Procedure Act, Chapter 22 of Title 41. ALEA may establish

procedures to implement the rules and policies of the

commission or as otherwise stated in state law.

(b) The commission shall establish adopt rules and
Page 6

policies that will restrict the information obtained under

authority of this article to the items germane to the

implementation of this article and restrict the use of

information only to authorized persons and agencies.

(c) The chair of the commission shall appoint a Privacy

and Security Committee from the membership of the commission

who are elected officials, or their designees, consisting of a

chair and three members, to study the privacy and security

implications of sharing criminal justice information and to

formulate rule or policy recommendations for consideration by

the commission concerning the collection, storage,

dissemination, or usage of criminal justice information.

(d) The commission may adopt rules and policies

regarding the collection, storage, and dissemination of

criminal justice information that conform to the policies of

the FBI CJIS. The commission may adopt rules and policies that

permit ALEA to perform background checks for noncriminal

justice purposes and may provide for the procedure for

obtaining the records including, but not limited to, charging

a fee not to exceed twenty-five dollars ($25) for securing

records through ALEA. All fees shall be deposited into the

State Treasury to the credit of the Public Safety Fund and

shall be used to cover the expenses for improving criminal

history records and the state repository at ALEA.

(e) Any rule or policy of the commission to the

contrary notwithstanding, the police department of any college

or university in this state which offers medical, nursing, and

health care education, or which operates a hospital may
Page 7

request from ALEA a criminal background check on any person

who applies for employment with the college or university, and

ALEA may charge a background search fee of up to twenty-five

dollars ($25) from each applicant for each search conducted on

the applicant. All fee proceeds from the background check fee

shall be deposited in the State Treasury to the credit of the

Public Safety Fund and shall be used to cover expenses for

improving criminal history records and the state repository at

ALEA.

(e) The commission may direct ALEA CJIS to establish

procedures, manuals, documents, forms or requirements; perform

tasks to facilitate federal and state law; and perform tasks

to facilitate rules or policies established by the commission.

These directives and ALEA CJIS's subsequent response are not

subject to APA approval, but must be approved by the

commission.

(f) The Unless otherwise provided by law, the

commission may establish a fee schedule for any services

rendered by ALEA under the authority of this article. All fees

shall be deposited into the State Treasury to the credit of

the Public Safety Fund and shall be used to support, develop,

maintain, and promote operations as authorized in this

article."

"§41-9-625

(a) All persons in this state in charge of law

enforcement and correctional agencies shall obtain biometric

identifiers, which may include fingerprints, photographs, palm

prints, retina scans, or other identifiers specified by the
Page 8

FBI, according to the biometric identification system at ALEA

and the rules established by the commission of all persons

arrested or taken into custody as fugitives from justice, and

of all unidentified human corpses in their jurisdictions. All

biometric identifiers collected according to this section

shall be provided to ALEA according to the rules of the

commission.

(b) If any person arrested or taken into custody is

subsequently released without charge or cleared of the offense

through criminal justice proceedings, the disposition shall be

reported by all state, county, and municipal criminal justice

agencies to ALEA within 30 days of such action, and all of the

information shall be eliminated and removed.

(a) When an individual is arrested for an offense, the

arresting agency shall obtain biometric identifiers, which may

include fingerprints, photographs, palm prints, iris scans, or

other identifiers specified by rule of AJIC, and provide this

information to ALEA according to the procedures established by

ALEA CJIS for inclusion in the state biometric identification

repository.

(b) When an individual is detained or taken into

custody as a fugitive from justice, the agency with custody

over the individual may obtain biometric identifiers, which

may include fingerprints, photographs, palm prints, iris

scans, or other identifiers specified by AJIC rule and provide

the information according to the procedures established by

ALEA CJIS. If the individual is subsequently released without

charge, released to the jurisdiction of the underlying arrest,
Page 9

or otherwise cleared of the charged offense through criminal

justice proceedings, the involved agency shall notify ALEA

CJIS of the disposition within 30 days. Upon receiving

notification, ALEA shall remove all information regarding the

detainment or custodial event from all ALEA CJIS information

systems.

(c) All agencies that recover an unidentified human

corpse shall obtain biometric identifiers and provide this

information and other recovery event-related information to

ALEA according to the rules established by the commission and

procedures established by ALEA CJIS for inclusion in the state

biometric identification repository.

(d)A law enforcement officer may use a biometric

identification device with access to the state and federal

biometric identification repositories to identify an

individual to the extent allowed by state law in situations

that provide the officer authority to request or otherwise

take action to identify an individual. The device must meet

FBI or AJIC standards to compare the captured identifier to

the state or federal biometric identification repositories.

The commission shall establish rules for the use of these

devices and the resulting information returned from the use."

"§41-9-650

In addition to any other requirements, any agency,

board, or commission in this state that issues a permit or

license, by rule, may require a criminal background check

through ALEA as part of its licensing or permitting

requirements. Any agency, board, or commission adopting a rule
Page 10

requiring a background check shall be subject to rules and

procedures of the commission for the use of the background

check.

(a) ALEA shall establish and operate a service, to be

called the Alabama Background Check Service, that allows

authorized persons and entities to obtain background checks on

individuals for noncriminal justice purposes.

(b)(1) AJIC shall adopt rules for the operation and use
of the Alabama Background Check Service.
(2) ALEA CJIS shall establish procedures that are
consistent with the commission's rules.

(c) ALEA may contract with one or more vendors or other

third-party entities to facilitate any or all functions of the

service on behalf of ALEA."

Section 2. Sections 41-9-650.1, 41-9-650.2, 41-9-650.3,

41-9-650.4, and 41-9-650.5 are added to the Code of Alabama

1975, to read as follows:

§41-9-650.1

(a) For the noncriminal justice purposes specified

herein, ALEA may provide a background check to any of the

following persons or entities:

(1) Any public or private employer to screen a

prospective employee or contractor or for other employment

purposes.

(2) Any government agency, board, or commission with

legal authority to issue a license, permit, or certification

to screen an applicant for the issuance or renewal of the

license, permit, or certification.
Page 11

(3) Any nonprofit or volunteer organization to screen a
prospective or current volunteer of the organization.
(4) Any housing authority or lessor of rental property
to screen a prospective or current resident.

(5) Any educational entity to screen student

applicants, prospective or current volunteers involved with

entity-related activities, or other individuals directly

related to the operations or events of the entity and subject

to the entity's authority.

(6) Any agency or organization established by federal

or state law for an official purpose of the agency or

organization.

(7) Any person or entity authorized by the rules of the

commission to obtain a background check for noncriminal

justice purposes.

(b) Except as otherwise provided by law, an individual

who is the subject of a background check for noncriminal

justice purposes shall provide express permission for the

release of information to the authorized person or entity

requesting the check prior to ALEA's dissemination of

background check information. The subject's express permission

shall be maintained, physically or digitally, by the

requesting person or entity for a period of three years or for

the term of the subject's association with the requester,

whichever is longer.

(c) A background check may not be provided on any

individual under 18 years of age without parental consent.

(d) Any person or entity that is authorized by state
Page 12

law to perform a background check or allowed by law to adopt

rules requiring a background check is subject to the AJIC

rules and ALEA procedures described in Section 41-9-650.

(e) The commission may require a person or entity to

develop background check guidelines for the commission's

review and approval prior to allowing the release of

background check information to that person or entity.

(f) Background check information may only be

disseminated for the specific purposes listed in this section.

No person or entity that has received background check

information from ALEA shall subsequently disseminate the

background check information to any other person or entity.

(g) Any recipient of a background check record may be

subject to an audit by ALEA CJIS.

§41-9-650.2

(a) The Alabama Background Check Service may be

provided through a biometric-based or a name-based search for

a background check record.

(b) A name-based search shall be initiated by

submitting an individual's name to ALEA through an Internet

web portal or other commission-approved mechanism, which shall

allow for the electronic transfer of records and shall only

return state information results.

(c) The response to a biometric-based search shall only

be provided upon the receipt of biometric information by ALEA

or a commission-approved third-party entity acting on behalf

of ALEA that meets all FBI standards for biometric

identification collection. This search shall provide state
Page 13

information results, as well as other state and federal

information as allowed by law.

(d) An applicant for a license, permit, or

certification shall provide the issuing government agency,

board, or commission with his or her name, date of birth,

Social Security number, and express permission for the release

of information on a form sworn by the applicant. This

information shall be digitally provided to ALEA. If a

biometric-based check is requested, the applicant shall submit

fingerprints or other biometrics in accordance with AJIC rules

and ALEA CJIS procedures. If a national record check is

required, ALEA shall forward or process the applicant's prints

or other biometrics to the FBI for a national criminal

background check in a manner consistent with federal law.

§41-9-650.3

(a) The secretary may establish reasonable record fees

for the provision of a background check report, not to exceed

thirty dollars ($30). The record fee may be waived at the

discretion of the secretary.

(b) Additional costs may be assessed to a person or
entity requesting a background check for any of the following:
(1) The cost for a national criminal background check,
as determined by the FBI.

(2) Financial transaction fees.

(3) A reasonable one-time account registration fee.

(c) ALEA may enter into an agreement with one or more

vendors or other third-party entities to perform background

check services for ALEA on the basis of fee sharing or by
Page 14

adding an additional convenience fee for third-party services.
(d) Requests for background checks made by the Alabama

Peace Officers' Standards and Training Commission or by any

criminal justice agency are exempt from fees established

pursuant to this section if the request is made for criminal

justice purposes or for the purpose of making an employment

suitability decision.

(e) All monies received for background checks shall be

deposited in the State Treasury to the credit of the Public

Safety Fund. The monies shall be used for the purposes of ALEA

CJIS and for other ALEA expenses as determined by the

secretary.

§41-9-650.4

(a) As part of the Alabama Background Check Service,

ALEA may establish the Alabama Rap Back Program. If

established, ALEA shall participate in the FBI's Next

Generation Identification (NGI) Rap Back Service. The purpose

of the rap back service is to allow ALEA to notify

participating entities when an enrolled individual is the

subject of a rap back notification event, including, but not

limited to, being arrested for or convicted of an offense.

(b) As used in this section, the following words have
the following meanings:
(1) INDIVIDUAL. Any individual who has undergone a

fingerprint-based background check in order to care for

children, the disabled, or the elderly, or to be licensed,

certified, or to perform volunteer service, or for any other

FBI or federally authorized purpose with a participating
Page 15

entity and who has been enrolled by that participating entity

in the Alabama Rap Back Program.

(2) PARTICIPATING ENTITY. An entity with statutory

authority to require an individual to undergo a

fingerprint-based background check as a condition to care for

children, the disabled, or the elderly, or to be licensed,

certified, or to perform volunteer service, or for any other

FBI or federally authorized purpose and has elected to enroll

those individuals in the Alabama Rap Back Program.

(c) ALEA may submit fingerprints and accompanying

records to the FBI to be retained in and advised through the

FBI's NGI Rap Back Service when an enrolled individual is

arrested for or convicted of a criminal offense. Fingerprints

submitted to the FBI may be used for future searches,

including latent searches.

(d) ALEA shall ensure that notification is made to the

participating entity that enrolls an individual in the Alabama

Rap Back Program when an FBI Rap Back report notification is

received. The information contained in the notification shall

be used by the participating entity for purposes of

determining the eligibility of the continued service of the

individual and shall not be further disseminated.

(e) No liability shall be imposed upon any law

enforcement official who disseminates information, or does not

disseminate information, in a good faith attempt to comply

with the requirements of this section. Nothing in this

subsection shall be construed to grant immunity for gross

negligence or willful misconduct.
Page 16

(f) ALEA shall adopt rules governing the operation and

maintenance of the Alabama Rap Back Program and the removal

and destruction of records on individuals who are deceased or

who are no longer individuals as defined in this section. Such

rules shall provide that a participating entity shall

disenroll any individual who is deceased or is no longer an

individual as defined in this section within five business

days of death or such event that no longer requires the

individual to be enrolled in the Alabama Rap Back Program to

ensure the prompt removal and destruction of records from the

Alabama Rap Back Program.

(g) ALEA may assess an annual fee not to exceed twelve

dollars ($12) per individual enrolled in the Alabama Rap Back

Program. The fee shall be paid by the participating entity

enrolling an individual in the Alabama Rap Back Program. When

more than one participating entity enrolls the same individual

in the Alabama Rap Back Program, both participating entities

shall be responsible for paying the full cost for maintenance

and notification. Any fees collected shall be deposited in the

State Treasury to the credit of the Public Safety Fund. Such

monies shall be used for the purposes of ALEA CJIS and for

other ALEA expenses as determined by the secretary.

(h) No participating entity authorized to submit

fingerprints shall be considered negligent per se in a civil

action solely because the entity elected not to enroll an

individual in the Alabama Rap Back Program pursuant to this

section.

(i) ALEA may establish an in-state rap back service for
Page 17

any person or entity that does not qualify to receive

information from the FBI Rap Back Service but that has

authority to require a state-only background check.

§41-9-650.5

(a) An individual commits the crime of misuse of a

background check report if he or she does any of the

following:

(1) Knowingly receives, disseminates, or otherwise uses

a background check contrary to the purposes allowed by this

article or otherwise allowed in law.

(2) Performs a background check on an individual

without first receiving a release, when required, from the

subject of the report.

(3) Willfully uses information submitted to the Alabama

Rap Back Program for purposes not authorized in this article

with the intent to harass or intimidate another individual.

(b) Misuse of a background check report is a Class B

misdemeanor.
Section 3. Article 4 of Chapter 2 of Title 32, Code of

Alabama 1975, relating to the release of criminal history

information, is repealed.

Section 4. This act shall become effective on October
1, 2026.

Page 18
