Florida Senate - 2026

By Senator DiCeglie

20261568__
A bill to be entitled

An act relating to the Florida Stablecoin Pilot

Program; creating s. 17.72, F.S.; establishing the

Florida Stablecoin Pilot Program within the Department

of Financial Services; providing legislative intent;

defining terms; authorizing the department to accept

eligible payment stablecoins for the payment of

certain fees; authorizing the department to send

eligible payment stablecoins for refunds,

reimbursements, or other disbursements to participants

who elect to receive such payments in the form of

eligible payment stablecoins; providing that

participation in the pilot program is voluntary;

authorizing applicants, licensees, or other

participants to submit eligible payment stablecoin to

a compatible digital wallet address; authorizing

participants to elect to receive refunds,

reimbursements, or other disbursements in eligible

payment stablecoins; requiring the department to

provide a compatible digital wallet address for a

specified purpose; authorizing the department to

convert eligible payment stablecoins into United

States currency and to credit an applicable licensing

account in a certain manner; authorizing the

department to accept, hold, or create eligible payment

stablecoins for use in the pilot program; requiring

certain earnings to be credited to the benefit of the

state; requiring the department to ensure that the

issuer of an eligible payment stablecoin meets certain
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261568__

requirements; authorizing examinations, audits, and

investigations to verify certain information relating

to the issuer of the eligible payment stablecoin

designated for use in the pilot program; requiring the

department to monitor and evaluate the pilot program

and collect certain data; requiring the department to

submit an annual report containing certain information

to the Governor and the Legislature, beginning on a

specified date; providing construction; authorizing

the department to adopt rules; providing an effective

date.

Be It Enacted by the Legislature of the State of Florida:

Section 1.

Section 17.72, Florida Statutes, is created to

read:

17.72 Florida Stablecoin Pilot Program.—There is

established within the Department of Financial Services the

Florida Stablecoin Pilot Program. It is the intent of the

Legislature that the Florida Stablecoin Pilot Program yield

benefits from the acceptance of eligible payment stablecoins for

governmental fees.

(1) As used in this section, the term:

(a) “Compatible digital wallet address” means the address

of a software application that securely stores private keys for

accessing and completing transactions with eligible payment

stablecoins.

(b) “Department” means the Department of Financial
Services.
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261568__

(c) “Eligible payment stablecoin” means a stablecoin that
meets all of the following requirements:
1. The stablecoin is fully backed by at least $1 billion in

reserve assets. This requirement does not apply to a stablecoin

created by the department.

2. The stablecoin is redeemable at all times for United
States dollars through the issuer or its agent.
3. The issuer does not charge a fee to mint or create the
stablecoin.
4. The issuer does not charge withdrawal or redemption
fees.
5. The stablecoin meets any additional criteria for a
permitted payment stablecoin under federal law.

The term does not include a central bank digital currency issued

directly or indirectly by a central bank, monetary authority, or

other governmental agency, whether foreign or domestic. An

eligible payment stablecoin is not a security as defined in s.

517.021.

(d) “Licensing fees” means any fee, assessment, application

fee, renewal fee, or other charge imposed by the department for

licensure, registration, certification, or regulatory oversight.

(2)(a) The department may allow the acceptance of eligible

payment stablecoins as a form of payment for fees that include

but are not limited to, licensing fees, application fees,

renewal fees, other regulatory fees administered by the

department, or any other money or fee owed to the department.

The department may send eligible payment stablecoins for

refunds, reimbursements, or other disbursements provided by the
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261568__

department to participants who elect to receive such payments in

the form of eligible payment stablecoins under paragraph (b).

(b) Participation in the pilot program is voluntary. An

applicant, a licensee, or other participant may submit eligible

payment stablecoins to a compatible digital wallet address

designated by the department as a valid form of payment to the

department. A participant receiving funds from the department

may also elect to receive refunds, reimbursements, or other

disbursements in eligible payment stablecoins to a compatible

digital wallet address provided by the recipient.

(3)(a) The department shall provide a compatible digital

wallet address for the receipt of eligible payment stablecoins

for licensing fees. Upon receipt of payment, the department may

convert the eligible payment stablecoins into United States

currency and credit the applicable licensing account in the same

manner as payments made by other authorized means.

(b) The department may accept, hold, or create eligible
payment stablecoins for use in the pilot program.

(c) Any earnings on the reserves associated with stablecoin

issued by the state shall be credited to the benefit of the

state.

(d) The department shall ensure that the issuer of the

eligible payment stablecoin designated for use in the pilot

program is licensed as a money services business under chapter

or registered as a payment stablecoin issuer under federal

law.

(e) The department may conduct examinations, audits, and

investigations of the issuer of the eligible payment stablecoin

designated for use in the pilot program to verify asset backing,
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261568__

redeemability, and adherence to consumer protection standards,

including standards related to fraud prevention and dispute

resolution.

(4)(a) The department shall monitor and evaluate the pilot

program and collect data on transaction volume, cost savings,

security incidents, regulatory compliance, and economic impacts,

as well as any instances of fraud or disputes.

(b) Beginning February 1, 2027, and annually thereafter,

the department shall submit a report to the Governor, the

President of the Senate, and the Speaker of the House of

Representatives. The report must include findings,

recommendations for expansion or termination of the pilot

program, and proposed statutory changes, if appropriate.

(5) This section does not alter or supersede any existing

statutory fee obligations, licensing requirements, or

enforcement authority of the department. Acceptance of eligible

payment stablecoins is an optional payment method and does not

require acceptance of any other digital asset.

(6) The department may adopt rules to implement this
section.
Section 2.

This act shall take effect upon becoming a law.

CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.
