Session of 2026

HOUSE BILL No. 2772
By Committee on Federal and State Affairs
Requested by Representative Rhiley
2-10

AN ACT concerning consumer protection; enacting the Kansas ageappropriate design code act; requiring businesses to assess and mitigate
risks of compulsive use of digital products in minors; mandating
privacy settings for minors to be set at the highest level by default;
detailing the right of each consumer to access and control such
consumer's own personal data; authorizing the attorney general to
enforce compliance and adopt necessary rules and regulations; creating
a private right of action for violations; enacting the Kansas stopping
digital likeness abuse by nonconsensual digital replicas act; creating a
private right of action for the unauthorized digital replication and
distribution of individuals' digital likenesses; enacting the Kansas
saving human connection act; prohibiting deceptive practices and
ensuring transparency in chatbot interactions; imposing liability on
chatbot providers for injuries caused by such providers' products;
creating a private right of action for violations; granting the attorney
general authority to enforce compliance of this act and adopt necessary
rules and regulations.
Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Kansas:
Section 1. Sections 1 through 12, and amendments thereto, shall be
known and may be cited as the Kansas age-appropriate design code act.
Sec. 2. As used in the Kansas age-appropriate design code act, unless
the context requires otherwise:
(a) "Act" means the Kansas age-appropriate design code act.
(b) (1) "Affiliate" means a legal entity that shares common branding
with another legal entity or controls, is controlled by or is under common
control with another legal entity.
(2) As used in paragraph (1), "control" or "controlled" means:
(A) Ownership of, or the power to vote, more than 50% of the
outstanding shares of any class of voting security of a company;
(B) control in any manner over the election of a majority of the
directors or of individuals exercising similar functions; or
(C) the power to exercise controlling influence over the management
of a company.
(c) "Age assurance" means a range of methods used to determine,

estimate or communicate the age or an age status of an online user.
(d) "Age status" means either an interval with an upper and lower age
limit or a label indicating age above or below a specific age.
(e) (1) "Algorithmic recommendation system" means a computational
process used to determine the selection, order, rank, relative prioritization
or relative prominence of media provided to a user through an online
service, product or feature, including search results, ranking,
recommendations, display or any other method of automated selection.
(2) "Algorithmic recommendation system" does not include a
computational process that:
(A) Enables users to find specific other users on a covered business's
service, such as by entering individual information as a search query or
uploading a list of contacts; or
(B) otherwise returns media responsive to a user's search query, as
long as the system does not:
(i) Process other personal data of the user to determine the selection,
order, rank, relative prioritization or relative prominence of the media; or
(ii) associate the search query with the user after the search results are
returned.
(f) "Algorithmic feed" means a component of an online service,
product or feature that displays or delivers a stream or list of media that is
selected, ranked or arranged in whole or in part by an algorithmic
recommendation system.
(g) (1) "Biometric data" means data generated from the technological
processing of a consumer's unique biological, physical or physiological
characteristics that allow or confirm the unique identification of the
consumer, including:
(A) Iris or retina scans;
(B) fingerprints;
(C) facial or hand mapping, geometry or templates;
(D) vein patterns;
(E) voice prints or vocal biomarkers; and
(F) gait or personally identifying physical movement or patterns.
(2) "Biometric data" does not include:
(A) A digital or physical photograph;
(B) an audio or video recording; or
(C) any data generated from a digital or physical photograph, or audio
or video recording, unless such data can be used to identify a specific
individual.
(h) "Business associate" means the same as defined in 45 C.F.R. §
160.103, as in effect on January 1, 2027.
(i) "Collect" means buying, renting, gathering, obtaining, receiving or
accessing any personal data by any means. "Collect" includes receiving

data from the consumer, either actively or passively, or by observing the
consumer's behavior.
(j) "Compulsive use" means a pattern of use of a covered business's
product or service that:
(1) Is repetitive and is difficult for a user to stop or reduce despite a
desire to do so; and
(2) materially disrupts one or more major life activities, including
sleeping, eating, learning, reading, communicating or working.
(k) (1) "Consumer" means an individual who is a resident of the state
of Kansas.
(2) "Consumer" does not include an individual acting in a commercial
or employment context or as an employee, owner, director, officer or
contractor of a company, partnership, sole proprietorship, nonprofit
organization or government agency whose communications or transactions
with the covered business occur solely within the context of that
individual's role with the company, partnership, sole proprietorship,
nonprofit organization or government agency.
(l) "Covered business" means a sole proprietorship, partnership,
limited liability company, corporation, association, other legal entity or an
affiliate thereof:
(1) That conducts business in the state of Kansas;
(2) that generates a majority of its annual revenue from online
services;
(3) whose online products, services or features are reasonably likely
to be accessed by a minor;
(4) that collects consumers' personal data or has consumers' personal
data collected on its behalf by a processor; and
(5) that alone or jointly with others determines the purposes and
means of the processing of consumers' personal data.
(m) "Covered entity" means the same as defined in 45 C.F.R. §
160.103, as in effect on January 1, 2027.
(n) "Covered minor" means a consumer who a covered business
knows or should have known, based on knowledge fairly implied under
objective circumstances, is a minor.
(o) "Default" means a preselected option adopted by the covered
business for the online service, product or feature.
(p) (1) "De-identified data" means data that does not identify and
cannot reasonably be used to infer information about, or otherwise be
linked to, an identified or identifiable individual, or a device linked to the
individual, if the covered business that possesses the data:
(A) Takes reasonable measures to ensure that the data cannot be used
to reidentify an identified or identifiable individual or be associated with
an individual or device that identifies or is linked or reasonably linkable to

an individual or household;
(B) publicly commits to processing the data only in a de-identified
fashion and not attempting to re-identify the data; and
(C) contractually obligates any recipients of the data to comply with
the provisions of this act.
(2) For purposes of subparagraph (A), "reasonable measures"
includes the deidentification requirements provided by 45 C.F.R. §
164.514, as in effect on January 1, 2027.
(q) "Derived data" means data that is created by the derivation of
information, data, assumptions, correlations, inferences, predictions or
conclusions from facts, evidence or another source of information or data
about a minor or a minor's device.
(r) "Direct messaging" means sending private one-on-one or group
messages to other users, separate from public posts.
(s) "Design" means:
(1) The processing of personal data; and
(2) design features.
(t) "Design feature" means any aspect of an online service, product or
feature the covered business develops or creates, in whole or in part, to
facilitate use of the online service, product or feature.
(1) "Design feature" includes, in whole or in part, any:
(A) Algorithmic recommendation system;
(B) algorithmic feed;
(C) user interface;
(D) notification or push alert system; and
(E) reward or incentive system.
(2) "Design feature" does not include any:
(A) Media;
(B) content moderation policy; or
(C) component of an algorithmic recommendation system that
enforces the covered business' content moderation policies.
(u) "Genetic data" means any data, regardless of its format, that:
(1) Results from the analysis of a biological sample of an individual,
or from another source enabling equivalent information to be obtained;
and
(2) concerns genetic material, including deoxyribonucleic acids,
ribonucleic acids, genes, chromosomes, alleles, genomes, alterations or
modifications to deoxyribonucleic acids or ribonucleic acids, single
nucleotide polymorphisms, epigenetic markers, uninterpreted data that
results from analysis of the biological sample or other source and any
information extrapolated, derived or inferred therefrom.
(v) "Identified or identifiable individual" means an individual who
can be readily identified, directly or indirectly, including by reference to an

identifier such as a name, an identification number, specific geolocation
data or an online identifier.
(w) "Known adult" means a consumer who a covered business knows
or should have known, based on knowledge fairly implied under objective
circumstances, is 18 years of age or older.
(x) "Minor" means an individual under 18 years of age.
(y) "Online service, product or feature" means a digital product that is
accessible to the public via the internet, including a website or application,
and does not mean any of the following:
(1) Telecommunications service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153, as in
effect on January 1, 2027;
(2) a broadband internet access service as defined in 47 C.F.R.§
54.400, as in effect on January 1, 2027; or
(3) the sale, delivery or use of a physical product.
(z) (1) "Personal data" means any information, including derived data
and unique identifiers, that is linked or reasonably linkable, alone or in
combination with other information, to an identified or identifiable
individual or to a device that identifies, is linked to or is reasonably
linkable to one or more identified or identifiable individuals in a
household.
(2) "Personal data" does not include de-identified data or publicly
available information.
(aa) "Process" or "processing" means any operation or set of
operations performed, whether by manual or automated means, on
personal data or on sets of personal data, such as the collection, use,
storage, disclosure, analysis, deletion, modification or otherwise handling
of personal data.
(bb) "Processor" means a person who processes personal data on
behalf of:
(1) A covered business;
(2) another processor; or
(3) a federal, state, tribal or local government entity.
(cc) (1) "Publicly available information" means information that:
(A) Is made available through federal, state, tribal or local
government records or to the general public from widely distributed
media; or
(B) a covered business has a reasonable basis to believe that the
consumer has lawfully made available to the general public.
(2) "Publicly available information" does not include:
(A) Biometric data collected by a covered business about a consumer
without the consumer's knowledge;
(B) information that is collated and combined to create a consumer
profile that is made available to a user of a publicly available website,

either in exchange for payment or free of charge;
(C) information that is made available for sale;
(D) an inference that is generated from the information described in
subparagraphs (B) or (C);
(E) any obscene visual depiction, as described in 18 U.S.C. Pt. 1, Ch.
71, as in effect on January 1, 2027;
(F) personal data that is created through the combination of personal
data with publicly available information;
(G) genetic data, unless otherwise made publicly available by the
consumer to whom the information pertains;
(H) information provided by a consumer on a website or online
service made available to all members of the public, for free or a fee,
where the consumer has maintained a reasonable expectation of privacy in
the information, such as by restricting the information to a specific
audience; or
(I) intimate images, authentic or computer-generated, known to be
nonconsensual.
(dd) "Reasonable alternative design" means an alternative design
feature for which the risk of encouraging compulsive use in minor users is
lower, unless the use of this alternative design would reduce the benefit of
the product to minor users in a way that substantially outweighs the
reduction in the risk of compulsive use to minor users.
(ee) "Reasonably likely to be accessed" means the online service,
product or feature is reasonably likely to be accessed by a covered minor
based on any of the following indicators:
(1) The online service, product or feature is directed to children, as
defined by the children's online privacy protection act, 15 U.S.C. §§ 6501–
and 16 C.F.R. Ch. 1, Subch. C, Pt. 312, as in effect on January 1,
2027;
(2) the online service, product or feature is determined, based on
competent and reliable evidence regarding audience composition, to be
routinely accessed by an audience that is composed of at least 2% minor
users, two through 17 years of age; or
(3) the covered business knew or should have known that at least 2%
of the audience of the online service, product or feature includes minor
users two through 17 years of age, provided that, in making this
assessment, the covered business shall not collect or process any personal
data that is not reasonably necessary to provide an online service, product
or feature with which a minor is actively and knowingly engaged.
(ff) "Small business" means a covered business that meets the
following criteria for the three preceding calendar years or for the period
during which the covered business has been in existence, if such period is
less than three years:

(1) The covered business's average annual gross revenues during the
period did not exceed $25,000,000, as adjusted annually to reflect changes
to the consumer price index; and
(2) the covered business, on average, did not annually collect,
process, retain or transfer the personal data of more than 50,000
individuals during the period for any purpose other than initiating,
rendering, billing for, finalizing, completing or otherwise collecting
payment for a requested service or product.
(gg) "Third party" means a natural or legal person, public authority,
agency or body other than the covered minor or the covered business.
(hh) "Weight" means the individual numeric setting that controls the
output of a recommender system at a high level across a covered online
platform's user base, such as the relative contributions of different factors
to an item's ranking.
Sec. 3. This act shall not apply to:
(a) A federal, state, tribal or local government entity in the ordinary
course of such government's operation;
(b) protected health information that a covered entity or business
associate thereof processes in accordance with or documents that a
covered entity or business associate creates for the purpose of complying
with HIPAA;
(c) information used only for public health activities and purposes
described in 45 C.F.R. § 164.512, as in effect on January 1, 2027;
(d) information that identifies a consumer in connection with:
(1) Activities that are subject to the federal policy for the protection
of human subjects as provided in 45 C.F.R. Pt. 46, as in effect on January
1, 2027;
(2) research on human subjects undertaken in accordance with good
clinical practice guidelines issued by the international council for
harmonization of technical requirements for pharmaceuticals for human
use;
(3) activities that are subject to the protections provided in 21 C.F.R.
Pt. 50 and 21 C.F.R. Part 56, as in effect on January 1, 2027;
(4) research conducted in accordance with the requirements set forth
in paragraphs (1) through (3) or otherwise in accordance with state or
federal law;
(5) an entity that primarily acts as a journalist as defined in K.S.A.
60-480, and amendments thereto, and that has a majority of such entity's
workforce consisting of individuals acting as journalists; or
(6) a financial institution subject to 15 U.S.C. Ch. 94, as in effect on
January 1, 2027.
Sec. 4. (a) A covered business shall not engage in any of the high-risk
data practices or design features listed in subsection (b) with respect to any

consumer unless:
(1) The consumer expressly and unambiguously requests the specific
practice or feature; and
(2) the consumer is not a covered minor.
(b) A covered business shall not:
(1) Collect, sell, share or retain any personal data of a consumer that
is not necessary to provide an online service, product or feature with which
the consumer is actively and knowingly engaged;
(2) use previously collected personal data of the consumer for any
purpose other than a purpose for which the personal data was collected,
unless necessary to comply with any obligation under this act;
(3) permit any individual, including a parent or guardian, to monitor
the online activity of the consumer or to track the location of the consumer
without providing a conspicuous signal to the consumer when the
consumer is being monitored or tracked;
(4) use the personal data of the consumer to select, recommend or
prioritize media for the covered minor, unless the personal data is:
(A) The consumer's express and unambiguous request to receive:
(i) Media from a specific account, feed or user or to receive more or
less media from that account, feed or user;
(ii) a specific category of media, such as "cat videos" or "breaking
news," or to see more or less of that category of media; or
(iii) more or less media with characteristics similar to the media they
are currently viewing;
(B) user-selected privacy or accessibility settings;
(C) the consumer's location, but only to determine whether the
consumer is within the State for purposes of complying with this section;
(D) the consumer's age status, but only to implement the covered
business's policies regarding media appropriate for minors; or
(E) a search query, provided the search query is only used to select
and prioritize media in response to the search query;
(5) send push notifications to the consumer between 12:00 a.m. and
6:00 a.m.; or
(6) use any design feature or component of a feature that:
(A) Automatically plays a video, unless the video is the next in a
series and the user expressly and unambiguously chose to play a prior
video in the series;
(B) uses intermittent variable reward schedules;
(C) continuously loads new media in an algorithmic feed seamlessly
and absent a specific request from the user, such as an infinite scroll feed;
(D) is intended to induce compulsive use; and
(E) has been identified and declared by the attorney general as a
prohibited data practice or design feature pursuant to the rulemaking

process outlined in subsection (c);
(7) provide a single setting to make more than one setting under this
subsection less protective; or
(8) prompt a consumer to change any of the consumer's settings under
this subsection unless strictly necessary to provide the consumer with the
online product, service or feature with which they are actively or
knowingly engaged.
(c) The attorney general shall, on or before January 1, 2027, adopt
rules and regulations that prohibit data processing or design practices of a
covered business that, in the opinion of the attorney general:
(1) Carry a risk of causing compulsive use that is not substantially
outweighed by any benefits provided by the practice or feature to users; or
(2) subvert or impair user autonomy, decision making or choice
during the use of an online service, product or feature of the covered
business.
(d) The attorney general may review and update the rules and
regulations adopted under subsection (c) as necessary to keep pace with
emerging technology.
Sec. 5. (a) Prior to deploying any new design, or a material change to
an existing design, to consumers, a covered business shall assess the risk
that the design will encourage compulsive use in minor users.
(b) For any design that carries a reasonably foreseeable risk of
encouraging compulsive use in minors, a covered business shall:
(1) Determine if there is a reasonable alternative design; and
(2) if one or more reasonable alternative designs do exist, provide the
reasonable alternative design that carries the lowest risk of compulsive use
as a default to each consumer, until:
(A) The consumer expressly and unambiguously requests the design;
and
(B) the covered business determines, using a commercially
reasonable and technically feasible age assurance method, that the
consumer is not a minor.
(c) Notwithstanding subsection (b), a covered business shall not
deploy any design to consumers if the design's assessed risk of compulsive
use to minors outweighs the assessed benefit of the design to minors,
unless:
(1) The consumer expressly and unambiguously requests the design;
and
(2) the covered business determines, using a commercially reasonable
and technically feasible age assurance method, that the consumer is not a
minor.
(d) A covered business shall assess all existing designs and mitigate
the risk of encouraging compulsive use in minors as described in this

section.
(e) A covered business shall document each step taken in accordance
with subsections (a), (b) and (c), along with any experiments, evidence and
data that supports the assessments and determinations made, and retain
such documents for a period of 10 years. All data collected about
individual users to support this subsection shall be anonymized.
(f) A covered business shall submit all records related to the
assessments and determinations made in subsections (a), (b) and (c) to an
independent auditor annually, who will assess the records for compliance
with this section and recommend any changes that would bolster
compliance.
(g) Nothing in this section shall require a covered business to:
(1) Assess any media for the media's risk of inducing compulsive use;
or
(2) limit any consumer's access to any specific user-generated content
or category of user-generated content.
(h) The provisions of this section shall not apply to any covered
business that qualifies as a small business.
Sec. 6. (a) (1) A covered business shall configure all default privacy
settings provided to a covered minor through the online service, product or
feature to the highest level of privacy.
(2) A covered business shall provide the following settings by default
to all covered minors:
(A) Do not use an algorithmic recommendation system to recommend
to any known adult user that they connect to the covered minor as a friend,
follower or contact;
(B) do not use an algorithmic recommendation system to recommend
to any known adult user that they follow the covered minor's media, unless
the covered minor's account was connected to the known adult's account as
a friend, follower or contact prior to the recommendation;
(C) do not use an algorithmic recommendation system to recommend
to any known adult user that they communicate with the covered minor
through direct messaging, unless the covered minor's account was
connected to the known adult's account as a friend, follower or contact
prior to the recommendation;
(D) do not use an algorithmic recommendation system to recommend
to the covered minor that they communicate with any known adult through
direct messaging, unless the covered minor's account was connected to the
known adult's account as a friend, follower or contact prior to the
recommendation;
(E) do not display the covered minor's friends, followers, or contacts;
and
(F) disable search engine indexing of the covered minor's account

profile and media.
(3) (A) A covered business shall not display the location of any
covered minor to any other user by default.
(B) A covered business shall only display the covered minor's
location to another user when the covered minor has expressly and
unambiguously chosen to share their location with the specific user.
(4) (A) A covered business shall not:
(i) Send push notifications to any covered minor by default; or
(ii) provide a single setting that enables all push notifications.
(B) A covered business shall provide covered minors with settings to
enable or disable each specific category of push notification offered by the
covered business on the product or service, such as marketing
notifications, direct message notifications, media interaction notifications
and any other category of notification pushed by the product or service.
(5) (A) A covered business shall:
(i) Disable by default all interaction counts, including counts of
reactions and comments, on all of the covered minor's media;
(ii) offer settings to enable or disable specific types of interaction
counts, such as comments, reactions, reshares or other categories of
interactions; and
(iii) offer a single setting to turn all interaction counts on at once only
if the settings to turn specific interactions on are equally or more
prominent and accessible.
(6) A covered business shall not:
(A) Provide a covered minor with a single setting that makes more
than one privacy setting less protective at once; or
(B) request or prompt a covered minor to make any of such minor's
settings less protective, unless the change is strictly necessary for the
covered minor to access a service or feature that such minor has expressly
and unambiguously requested.
(b) A covered business that facilitates communications between users
shall:
(1) Provide a prominent, accessible, and responsive tool that gives a
covered minor the option to block specific users from taking, at minimum,
each of the following actions:
(A) Accessing the user's media;
(B) interacting with the user's media;
(C) communicating with the user through the covered business'
media;
(D) communicating with the user through direct messaging; and
(E) communicating with the user through any other means offered by
the covered business through the product or service.
(2) The tool described in paragraph (1) shall provide a covered minor

with the option to prevent media from the blocked user from appearing in
the covered minor's feed.
(3) The tool described in paragraph (1) shall, at a minimum, be
accessible from a feature located:
(A) Proximate to every instance of another user's username and
avatar;
(B) on all media shared by another user;
(C) on every direct message or direct message thread; and
(D) in a first-level settings menu labeled "Blocked Users".
(4) The features described in subparagraphs (A) through (C) of
paragraph (3) shall provide a covered minor with the option to:
(A) Block the other user, which will trigger all of the settings in
paragraphs (1) and (2); or
(B) go to the settings page to select more granular block settings for
the other user.
(c) A covered business that offers an algorithmic feed to a covered
minor that uses the covered minor's personal data to select, recommend or
prioritize media in the feed shall:
(1) Provide a prominent and accessible user interface that enables the
covered minor to:
(A) Expressly and unambiguously communicate such covered minor's
preferences about the types of media to be recommended and to be
blocked in the output of the relevant algorithmic recommendation system;
and
(B) access, review and make changes to any personal data the
covered business uses to determine the output of the relevant algorithmic
recommendation system; and
(2) ensure that the relevant algorithmic recommendation system is
informed by these preferences.
(d) A covered business that offers an algorithmic feed to a covered
minor that uses the covered minor's personal data to select, recommend or
prioritize media in the feed shall provide the covered minor with the
choice of an algorithmic feed that only selects media from sources the
covered minor affirmatively chose to follow or otherwise include in the
feed.
(e) A covered business shall:
(1) Provide a prominent and accessible tool to allow:
(A) A covered minor to request the covered business delete any
account profiles, media and personal data provided by, or obtained about,
the covered minor, including personal data the covered minor provided to
the covered business, personal data the covered business obtained from
another source and derived data; and
(B) the parent or legal guardian of a covered minor to take such a

request on the covered minor's behalf; and
(2) honor a request made under paragraph (1) not later than 15 days
after a covered business receives the request.
(f) A covered business shall not delete anonymized data collected for
the purpose of complying with the transparency requirements in Section
5(e), and amendments thereto.
Sec. 7. A covered business shall prominently and clearly provide on
such covered business's website or mobile application:
(a) The covered business's privacy information, terms of service,
policies and community standards;
(b) for each algorithmic feed in use by the covered business:
(1) The purpose of the feed; and
(2) the algorithmic recommendation system or systems used to
determine the feed;
(c) for each algorithmic recommendation system in use by the
covered business:
(1) The purpose of the system;
(2) a description of any personal data of minors that is used as an
input or to inform an input;
(3) the source of the personal data;
(4) the purpose of using the personal data; and
(5) how each personal data input is:
(A) Measured and determined, if it is derived data; and
(B) weighed relative to the other inputs reported in this subsection,
categorized into one of four quartile groups according to the input's
relative importance in contributing to the system's output; and
(d) for every other service feature of the product or service that uses
the personal data of covered minors, descriptions of:
(1) The purpose of the service feature;
(2) the personal data collected by the service feature;
(3) the personal data used by the service feature;
(4) how the service feature uses the personal data;
(5) any personal data transferred to or shared with a processor or third
party by the service feature, the identity of the processor or third party and
the purpose of the transfer or sharing; and
(6) how long the personal data is retained.
Sec. 8. (a) Any covered business or processor conducting age
assurance shall:
(1) Only collect personal data of a consumer that is strictly necessary
for determining a consumer's age status;
(2) immediately upon determining whether a consumer is a covered
minor, delete any personal data collected of that consumer for age
assurance, except for the determination of the user's age status;

(3) not use any personal data of a consumer collected for age
assurance for any other purpose;
(4) not combine personal data of a consumer collected for age
assurance, except for the determination of the consumer's age status, with
any other personal data of the consumer;
(5) not disclose personal data of a consumer collected for age
assurance to a third party that is not a processor; and
(6) implement a review process to allow consumers to appeal such
consumer's age status determination.
(b) A covered business or processor that complies with all the
provisions of this act shall not be held liable for any inaccuracies in a
consumer's age status.
(c) The attorney general may adopt and update rules implementing
this section, including:
(1) Describing:
(A) How covered businesses may comply with the covered minor and
known adult standards;
(B) appropriate review processes for consumers appealing their age
status determinations; and
(C) transparency measures that would increase consumer trust in age
assurance; and
(2) providing any additional privacy protections for personal data
collected for age assurance.
Sec. 9. (a) A violation of this act by a covered business shall
constitute a deceptive act pursuant to the Kansas consumer protection act,
K.S.A. 50-623 et seq., and amendments thereto.
(b) The attorney general shall have the same authority under this act
to adopt rules and regulations, conduct civil investigations, bring civil
actions and seek remedies as provided under the Kansas consumer
protection act, K.S.A. 50-623 et seq., and amendments thereto.
(c) Any violation of this act or rules adopted pursuant to this act
constitutes an injury in fact to a consumer.
(d) A consumer injured by a violation of this act may bring a civil
action against the covered business or processor that violates this act, in
which the court may award a prevailing plaintiff:
(1) Statutory damages of $5,000 per individual per violation, as
adjusted annually to reflect an increase in the consumer price index, or
actual damages, whichever is greater;
(2) punitive damages, for reckless or knowing violations;
(3) injunctive relief;
(4) declaratory relief; and
(5) reasonable attorney's fees and litigation costs.
Sec. 10. Nothing in this act shall be interpreted or construed to:

(a) Impose liability in a manner that is inconsistent with 47 U.S.C.§
230;
(b) impose liability in a manner that is inconsistent with the first
amendment to the Constitution of the United States;
(c) force any consumer to undergo age assurance as a condition of
accessing the products or services of any covered business;
(d) prevent any consumer from accessing any user-generated media;
or
(e) preempt or otherwise affect any right, claim, remedy, presumption
or defense available at law or in equity, including, but not limited to, antidiscrimination, consumer protection, labor and civil rights laws.
Sec. 11. A covered business shall not discriminate or retaliate against
any consumer, including denying products or services, charging different
prices or rates for products or services, or providing lower quality products
or services to the consumer, for receiving any of the protections contained
in this act, exercising any of the rights contained in this act, for refusing to
change their privacy and safety settings or for refusing to agree to the
collection or processing of personal data or to the use of any design
feature.
Sec. 12. Nothing in this act may be construed to infringe on the
existing rights and freedoms of covered minors or be construed to
discriminate against the covered minors based on race, ethnicity, sex,
disability, religion or national origin.
Sec. 13. (a) Sections 13 through 18, and amendments thereto, shall be
known and may be cited as the Kansas stopping likeness abuse by
nonconsensual digital replicas act.
(b) (1) The purpose of this act is to enshrine robust, dignity-based
protections for all individuals over their digital likeness against replication
without consent, while respecting constitutional doctrine concerning
public and limited-purpose public figures.
(2) Dignity-based protections recognize the intrinsic worth of human
beings shared by all people, as well as the individual reputation of each
person built upon their own individual actions and achievements.
Violations of dignity-based protections, unlike property right violations, do
not manifest in clear monetary or financial losses. Instead, violations of
one's dignity produce emotional harms like distress, embarrassment or
humiliation, as well as psychological harms. Violations may also cause
reputational harm, including being misrepresented in relation to a matter,
including one's beliefs, identities and actions or experiencing
disadvantageous changes in employment status, position or duties as a
result of the violation. Monetary and financial harms can accompany
dignity-based violations, including resultant damage to property or damage
to a business or financial position.

Sec. 14. As used in the Kansas stopping likeness abuse by
nonconsensual digital replicas act, unless the context requires otherwise:
(a) "Act" means the Kansas stopping likeness abuse by
nonconsensual digital replicas act.
(b) "Consent" means prior written and signed affirmation of an
individual to such individual's digital replication by another. If such
individual is a minor, "consent" shall be made by the minor's parents or
legal guardians. If the individual is deceased, "consent" shall be given by
such individual's executor or administrator, heirs or devisees. Mere
acceptance of a terms of use or service agreement for a digital product or
service does not constitute consent to digital replication alone, even where
such agreements contain explicit provisions concerning digital replicas,
without a further showing that the individual materially understood such
terms and provided prior, written and signed consent to such individual's
digital replication. "Consent" can be established through the provision of
documented contract negotiations or other formal, legal communications
demonstrating that the individual had a genuine opportunity to bargain
with the parties responsible for such individual's replication prior to the
creation of any digital replica of such individual.
(c) "Developer" means any individual, group of individuals or legal
entities who develop or deploy any type of digital technology capable of
producing digital replicas. Such technology is not limited to digital
services and products with the sole purpose or function of digital
replication. Legal entities include, but are not limited to, firms,
associations, partnerships, corporations, joint stock companies, syndicates,
common law and statutory trusts, educational and religious institutions,
political parties and community, civic or other organizations. "Developer"
shall not be interpreted to be mutually exclusive for the purposes of this
act.
(e) (1) "Digital likeness" means the likeness of an individual that has
been created or manipulated through the use of any digital technology.
(2) "Digital likeness" includes the use of an individual's likeness in
any technological product or service that represents itself as having a
likeness to the individual depicted.
(f) (1) (A) "Digital replica" means a newly-created, highly realistic
image, video or audio recording that has been digitally created or
manipulated to depict an individual's likeness without such individual's
consent.
(B) "Digital replica" includes an exact copy, imitation or close
approximation of the likeness of an individual created or altered, in whole
or in part, using any type of digital technology.
(2) "Digital replica" does not include:
(A) Original depictions of an individual created through:

(i) Traditional, non-human audiovisual technologies, including, but
not limited to, photography and video and audio recording; and
(ii) human audiovisual technologies such as visual, musical, dramatic
and other performance-based art forms;
(B) the electronic reproduction of a previously-existing unaltered
video, image or audio recording of an individual; and
(C) the remixing, mastering or digital remastering of a sound
recording, image or an audiovisual work depicting an individual's likeness,
especially when doing so superficially alters the appearance of the original
work, such as through the use of a filter.
(g) (1) "Digital replication" means the act of producing a digital
replica of another individual by another using digital technology.
(2) "Digital replication" does not include the production of a digital
replica of an individual by such same individual.
(h) (1) "Digital technology" means any information computer and
communication technology products, services or tools, including the
internet and other communication networks, computer devices and other
computer and communications hardware, software applications, data
systems and other electronic content, including multimedia content, and
data storage.
(2) "Digital technology" includes, but is not limited to, complex
computational systems commonly referred to as "artificial intelligence,"
"generative artificial intelligence," "machine learning," "deep learning"
and other related technical systems that can generate novel outputs through
data-based statistical pattern identification, whether through the use of
models, rule-based learning or other methods.
(i) "Individual" means a human being, living or deceased.
(j) "Likeness" means the actual or simulated image, voice, signature
and other uniquely identifying features, including one's face, mannerisms,
distinctive appearance, distinctive speech patterns, including speech and
language disorders, distinguishing body-based characteristics, such as
visible physical marks and permanent body modifications and other
unique, personally-identifying characteristics of an individual, regardless
of the means of creation, that is readily identifiable as the individual
through visual or auditory means. "Likeness" does not include the use of
an individual's name alone, without any other representation of the
individual.
(k) "Limited-purpose public figure" means any individual who
voluntarily places themself into a particular public controversy and thereby
becomes a public figure for a limited issue or range of issues and for a
limited duration of time. Private individuals shall not be converted into
limited-purpose public figures solely through being made the subject of
news reporting.

(l) "Private individual" means any individual who is not a public
figure or limited-purpose public figure.
(m) (1) "Public figure" means any individual who has achieved fame
or notoriety and is known to many people outside of such individual's
personal and professional connections.
(2) "Public figure" includes any individual who has run for
government office or otherwise holds a position of prominence in society.
Sec. 15. (a) This act shall be liberally construed in a manner
consistent with the intent to provide maximal protection to all individuals
against the nonmonetary harms of nonconsensual digital replication
without violating existing rights and obligations imposed under other laws
of this state.
(b) The duties and obligations imposed by this act are cumulative
with any other duties or obligations imposed under other law and shall not
be construed to relieve any party from any duties or obligations imposed
under other law and do not limit any rights or remedies under existing law.
(c) The remedies provided in this act shall be construed as cumulative
to each other and the remedies or penalties available under all other laws
of this state.
(d) Nothing in this act shall be construed to limit existing and future
claims related to the prevention of likeness harms, including common law
or statutory misappropriation of likeness tort and right of publicity claims,
as well as any laws governing the assignment or licensing of propertybased interests in one's likeness, or any other legal remedy potentially
available to a claimant under this act.
(e) This act shall not apply to the extent that this act is preempted by
federal law.
Sec. 16. (a) Every individual shall have a dignity-based right of
protection against nonconsensual digital replication. This right shall not be
limited by the commercial value of the individual's likeness or digital
likeness, or lack thereof.
(b) Subject to the provisions of section 18, and amendments thereto,
any individual or developer who knowingly engages in digital replication,
without the prior consent of the individual subjected to such digital
replication, shall be liable to a civil action to the individual depicted
therein.
(c) Subject to the provisions of section 18, and amendments thereto,
any individual or developer who knowingly publishes, distributes,
transmits or otherwise makes available to the public an individual's digital
replica, without such individual's prior consent, shall be liable to a civil
action.
(d) Subject to the provisions of section 18, and amendments thereto,
any individual or developer who knowingly distributes, transmits or

otherwise makes available any type of digital technology whose sole
purpose is digital replication shall be liable to a civil action, as well as
statutory damages and structural remedies under section 18, and
amendments thereto.
Sec. 17. (a) Any claim pursuant to this act concerning the digital
replication of a private figure, including that of a minor or deceased
private figure, shall show that the alleged conduct would be offensive to a
reasonable person similarly situated.
(b) Offensiveness shall be established through a showing:
(1) Of the intensity and durability of the offense;
(2) the reasonability or foreseeability of the offense;
(3) the extent to which the private individual could have reasonably
avoided the offense; and
(4) the extent to which the private individual willingly assumed the
risk of the offense.
(c) (1) A claimant establishes a rebuttable presumption of
offensiveness by showing:
(A) Mental or emotional distress, including, but not limited to:
(i) Incurring financial expenses, medical expenses, job loss or other
monetary burdens as a result;
(ii) non-financial, dignity and control-based burdens, such as
violations of the claimant's sincerely held personal, political or religious
beliefs;
(iii) experienced or highly likely damage to the claimant's reputation
or ability to maintain such claimant's pre-replication reputation; or
(iv) that the digital replica so produced is likely to cause confusion, to
cause mistake or to deceive another as to the affiliation, connection or
association of the individual depicted with another person, group,
institution or commercial product, service or interest;
(B) the digital replica so produced would more likely than not offend
an individual similarly situated to the claimant; or
(C) the claimant gained knowledge of the digital replica at issue
through any means other than direct, post-replication disclosure by the
individual or developer.
(2) (A) A defendant shall overcome the presumption established in
paragraph (1) by showing the immediate removal of the offending digital
replica so produced, and the immediate destruction of any digital
technology whose sole purpose is digital replication and is under such
defendant's direct control, as well as providing documented proof that the
defendant made a good-faith effort to immediately inform any other
individual or developer described in section 16(c) or (d), and amendments
thereto, that the defendant reasonably knew and continued to make the
digital replica at issue available to the public after the defendant's

immediate removal or destruction of the underlying technology.
(B) If the defendant is an individual without direct access to or
control over the digital technology whose sole purpose is digital
replication, such individual defendant shall overcome the presumption
established in subsection (c) by providing documented proof of a goodfaith effort to request that the offending digital replica be immediately
removed by any other individual or developer described in section 16(c) or
(d), and amendments thereto, that such individual defendant reasonably
knew continued to make the digital replica at issue available to the public.
(C) Where the claimant directly contacts the defendant prior to filing
a civil action, immediate removal or destruction shall occur within 48
hours of such contact for the defendant to meet the showing requirements
described in subparagraph (A).
(D) Such showing requirements shall not be met if such defendant
merely demonstrates that the private figure depicted by the digital replica
at issue voluntarily publicized such private figure's own likeness or digital
likeness in other contexts beyond the digital replication at issue, including,
but not limited to, appearing in photos, video recordings, audio recordings
and other readily-identifiable means.
(d) Any claim pursuant to this act concerning the digital replication of
a public or limited-purpose public figure, including that of a minor or
deceased public or limited-purpose public figure, shall show both that the
alleged conduct would be offensive to a reasonable person similarly
situated as provided in subsections (a), (b) and (c) and that the defendant
violated the right provided in section 16(a), and amendments thereto, with
knowledge that the digital replica resulting from conduct provided in
section 16(b), (c) or (d), and amendments thereto, was false, or with
reckless disregard of whether such digital replica was false.
(e) Any claim pursuant to this act may include a claim of secondary
liability for any individual or developer who provided substantial
assistance to others to infringe on the right provided in section 16(a), and
amendments thereto, where such individual or developer knows or
reasonably should have known of the illegality of such conduct.
Sec. 18. (a) (1) The court having jurisdiction for any civil action
arising pursuant to this act may grant injunctions on terms as such court
may deem reasonable to prevent or restrain any violation of section 16,
and amendments thereto.
(2) (A) As part of such injunction and so far as the developer is not an
individual, the court may authorize the impounding, confiscation or
destruction of all unauthorized items and seize all tangible personal
property or other instrumentalities used in connection with the violation of
the individual's rights and any underlying likeness-related data therein.
(B) All instrumentalities seized pursuant to enforcing an injunction

under this subsection shall be liquidated and used to satisfy statutory
damages, if damages are recovered by the rights holder.
(b) (1) An individual shall be entitled to recover whichever is greater
of $5,000 or the actual damages suffered as a result of any violation of
section 16, and amendments thereto, as well as any profits that are
attributable to any such violation that are not taken into account in
computing the actual damages.
(2) Profit or lack thereof by the infringement of an individual's rights
as provided in section 16(a), and amendments thereto, shall not be a
criteria of determining liability.
(c) An individual or developer shall not be liable in a civil action
brought pursuant to this act if:
(1) A violation of section 16, and amendments thereto, is performed:
(A) For the purpose of reporting on newsworthy events and matters
of legitimate public concern, including accounts of crimes, accidents,
deaths, natural and human-made disasters, entertainment events and the
activities of public officials;
(B) for commentary, criticism, satire or parody, or any portion
thereof. To constitute satire or parody under this act, the conduct shall be
an exaggerated, outrageous commentary which a reasonable person could
not construe as truthful;
(C) for scholarship or educational purposes;
(D) within creative works, the character and purpose of which is
primarily expressive or artistic in nature rather than commercial, and that
includes a clear and obvious disclaimer as to the fictional nature of the
depictions at issue, or any portion thereof;
(E) fleeting or incidental replications;
(F) in a manner that is otherwise protected by the first amendment to
the Constitution of the United States; or
(G) any combination of the above; or
(2) (A) Such individual or developer is a traditional publisher,
including, but not limited to, newspapers, magazines, radio and television
stations, billboards and transit ads, where such publishers have published
or disseminated any advertisement or solicitation in violation of section
(16)(a), and amendments thereto.
(B) Subparagraph (A) shall not apply if it is established that such
publishers had knowledge or reasonably should have known of the
nonconsensual nature of the digital replication at issue. Such knowledge
may be implied where traditional publishers covered in this section fall
under section 16(b), (c) or (d), and amendments thereto.
Sec. 19. Sections 19 through 25, and amendments thereto, shall be
known and may be cited as the Kansas saving human connection act.
Sec. 20. As used in the Kansas saving human connection act, unless the

context requires otherwise:
(a) "Act" means the Kansas saving human connection act.
(b) "Advertisement" means any written or oral statement, illustration
or depiction that promotes the sale or use of a good or service or is
designed to increase interest in a brand, good or service where such
statement, illustration or depiction is displayed in exchange for monetary
or other valuable consideration, including access to data, between the
chatbot provider and the brand, good or service.
(c) (1) "Affirmative consent" means a clear affirmative act signifying
a user's freely given, specific, informed and unambiguous authorization for
an act or practice in response to a specific request from a chatbot provider,
provided:
(A) The request is provided to the user in a clear and conspicuous
standalone disclosure;
(B) the request includes a description, written in easy-to-understand
language, of the act or practice for which the user's consent is sought;
(C) the request is made in a manner reasonably accessible to and
usable by users with disabilities;
(D) the request is made available to the user in each language in
which the chatbot provider provides a chatbot;
(E) the option to refuse to give consent is at least as prominent as the
option to give consent, and the option to refuse to give consent takes the
same number of steps or fewer as the option to give consent; and
(F) affirmative consent to an act or practice is not inferred from the
inaction of the user or the user's continued use of a chatbot provided by the
chatbot provider.
(2) "Affirmative consent" does not include:
(A) Acceptance of a general or broad terms of use or similar
document;
(B) hovering over, muting, pausing or closing a given piece of
content;
(C) agreement obtained through the use of a false, fraudulent or
materially misleading statement or representation; or
(D) agreement obtained through the use of other dark patterns.
(d) "Chatbot" means any artificial intelligence, algorithmic or
automated system that generates information via text, audio, image or
video in a manner that simulates interpersonal interactions or conversation.
(e) "Chat log" means any input data, outputs generated by a chatbot
or record of the input data or outputs from user interactions with a chatbot.
(f) "Chatbot provider" means any person creating, distributing or
otherwise making available a chatbot.
(g) "Collect" or "collecting" means creating, buying, renting,
gathering, obtaining, receiving, accessing or otherwise acquiring personal

data or input data by any means through individuals' use of chatbots.
(h) "Dark pattern" means a user interface designed or manipulated
with the substantial effect of subverting or impairing user autonomy,
decision-making or choice.
(i) "De-identified data" means information that cannot reasonably be
used to infer or derive the identity of an individual or does not identify and
is not linked or reasonably linkable to an individual or a device that
identifies or is linked or reasonably linkable to such individual, regardless
of whether the information is aggregated, provided that the chatbot
provider:
(1) Takes such physical, administrative and technical measures as are
necessary to ensure that the information cannot, at any point, be used to reidentify any individual or device that identifies or is linked or reasonably
linkable to an individual;
(2) publicly commits in a clear and conspicuous manner to:
(A) Process, retain or transfer the information solely in a de-identified
form without any reasonable means for re-identification; and
(B) not attempt to re-identify the information with any individual or
device that identifies or is linked or reasonably linkable to an individual;
and
(3) contractually obligates any entity that receives the information
from the chatbot provider to:
(A) Comply with all of the provisions of this section with respect to
the information; and
(B) require that such contractual obligations be included in all
subsequent instances for which the data may be received.
(j) "Input data" means information, including text, photos, audio,
video or files, provided to a chatbot by a user.
(k) "Model" means an engineered or machine-based system
underlying a chatbot that can, for explicit or implicit objectives, infer how
to generate outputs from received inputs that can influence physical or
virtual environments.
(l) (1) "Personal data" means any information, including derived data,
inferences or unique identifiers, that is linked or reasonably linkable, alone
or in combination with other information, to an identified or identifiable
individual or a device that identifies or is linked or reasonably linkable to
an individual.
(2) "Personal data" does not include de-identified data or publicly
available information.
(m) (1) "Publicly available information" means information that has
been lawfully made available to the general public from:
(A) Federal, state, tribal or municipal government records, if the
person collects, processes and transfers such information in accordance

with any restrictions or terms of use placed on the information by the
relevant government entity;
(B) widely distributed media; or
(C) a disclosure to the general public as required by federal, state,
tribal or local law.
(2) "Publicly available information" does not include:
(A) Any obscene visual depiction, as defined in 18 U.S.C. § 1460;
(B) biometric data;
(C) personal data that is created through the combination of personal
data with publicly available information;
(D) information that is collated and combined to create user profiles
on publicly available or subscription-based websites and inferences
generated from such information;
(E) genetic data, unless otherwise made publicly available by the
individual to whom the information pertains;
(F) information made available by a user on a website or online
service made available to all members of the public, for free or a fee,
where the user has restricted the information to a specific audience; or
(G) intimate images, authentic or computer-generated, known to be
nonconsensual.
(n) "Process" or "processing" means any operation or set of
operations performed, whether by manual or automated means, on
personal data or input data or on sets of personal data or input data, such as
the use, storage, disclosure, analysis, deletion or modification of such data.
(o) (1) "Profiling" means any form of processing performed on
personal data or input data to detect and classify or designate personality
and behavioral characteristics of an individual.
(2) "Profiling" does not include processing of chat logs for purposes
of user safety or to otherwise comply with this act.
(p) (1) "Sell" means exchanging personal data or input data for
monetary or other valuable consideration, or making available such data or
use of such data, by the chatbot provider to a third party.
(2) "Sell" does not include:
(A) The disclosure of personal data or input data to a third party that
processes the data on behalf of the chatbot provider;
(B) with the user's affirmative consent, the disclosure of personal data
or input data where the user affirmatively directs the chatbot provider to
disclose the data or intentionally uses the chatbot provider to interact with
a third party; or
(C) the disclosure of personal data that the user:
(i) Intentionally made available to the general public via a channel of
mass media; and
(ii) did not restrict to a specific audience.

(q) (1) "Training" means the use of input data to adjust or modify a
model.
(2) "Training" does not include:
(A) Testing to identify risks of harm to users;
(B) adjustments or modifications to address identified risks of harm
to users; or
(C) any actions necessary to comply with this act or otherwise
required by law.
(r) "User" means any natural person, regardless of age.
(s) "Widely distributed media" means information that is available to
the general public, including information from a telephone book or online
directory, a television, internet or radio program, the news media, or an
internet website that is available to the general public on an unrestricted
basis. "Widely distributed media" does not include an obscene visual
depiction as defined in 18 U.S.C. § 1460.
Sec. 21. (a) A chatbot provider shall not:
(1) Process personal data other than input data to inform chatbot
outputs unless the processing of personal data is necessary to fulfill an
express request made by a user and that user has provided affirmative
consent;
(2) process a user's chat log:
(A) To determine whether to display an advertisement for a product
or service to the user;
(B) to determine a product, service or category of product or service
to advertise to the user; or
(C) to customize an advertisement or how an advertisement is
presented to the user;
(3) process a user's chat log or personal data:
(A) If the chatbot provider knows or should know, based on
knowledge fairly implied on the basis of objective circumstances, that the
user is under 18 years of age, without the affirmative consent of that user's
parent or legal guardian;
(B) for training purposes, if the chatbot provider knows or should
have known, based on knowledge fairly implied on the basis of objective
circumstances, that a user is under 18 years of age;
(C) of a user who is over 18 years of age for training purposes, unless
the chatbot provider first obtains affirmative consent; or
(D) to engage in profiling beyond what is necessary to fulfill an
express request;
(4) use any classification or designation of a user's personality or
behavioral characteristics created through profiling beyond what is
necessary to fulfill an express request made by a user;
(5) sell a user's chat logs;

(6) retain a user's chat log for longer than 10 years, unless retention is
necessary to comply with this act or otherwise required by law; or
(7) discriminate or retaliate against any user, including by denying
products or services, charging different prices or rates for products or
services or providing lower quality products or services to the user, for
refusing to consent to the use of chat logs or personal data for training
purposes.
(b) A user has the right to access, at any time, any of the user's own
chat logs that a chatbot provider has retained in a portable and readily
usable format.
(1) Chat logs shall be made available to users in a downloadable and
human- and machine-readable format.
(2) A chatbot provider shall not discriminate or retaliate against any
user, including by denying products or services, charging different prices
or rates for products or services or providing lower quality products or
services to the user, for accessing such user's own chat logs.
(c) A government entity shall not compel the production of or access
to input data or chat logs from a chatbot provider, except as pursuant to a
wiretap warrant obtained in accordance with K.S.A. 22-2514, et seq., and
amendments thereto.
(d) A chatbot provider shall develop, implement and maintain a
comprehensive data security program that contains administrative,
technical and physical safeguards that are proportionate to the volume and
nature of the personal data and chat logs maintained by the chatbot
provider. The program shall be written and made publicly available on the
chatbot provider's website.
Sec. 22. (a) (1) A chatbot provider shall not use any term, letter or
phrase in the advertising, interface or outputs of a chatbot that indicates or
implies that any output data is being provided by, endorsed by or
equivalent to those provided by:
(A) A licensed healthcare professional;
(B) a licensed legal professional;
(C) a licensed accounting professional;
(D) a certified financial fiduciary or planner; or
(E) any person who the laws of Kansas require to be licensed or
otherwise credentialed in order to offer services in the state of Kansas.
(2) Such prohibition shall include any representation that a user's
input data or chat log is subject to client or patient confidentiality. Any
violation of this subsection shall be deemed a deceptive act or practice
under K.S.A. 50-626, and amendments thereto.
(b) Chatbot providers shall provide clear, conspicuous and explicit
notice to users that they are interacting with a chatbot rather than a human
prior to the chatbot generating any outputs, every hour thereafter and each

time a user prompts the chatbot about whether the chatbot is a real person.
(1) The text of such notice shall appear in the same language as the
one in which the user is interacting with the chatbot, in a font size easily
readable by an average user and no smaller than the largest font size of
other text appearing on the interface on which the chatbot is provided.
(2) Such notice shall be accessible to users with disabilities.
Sec. 23. The attorney general may adopt any rules or regulations
necessary to implement this act.
Sec. 24. (a) Chatbots are products for the purposes of product liability
actions.
(b) A chatbot provider has a duty to ensure that the use of such
provider's chatbot does not cause injury to a user.
(c) A chatbot provider is liable for any injury to a user that is caused
by such user's use of such provider's chatbot, even if:
(1) The chatbot provider exercised all reasonable care in the design
and distribution of the chatbot; or
(2) the chatbot provider did not directly distribute the chatbot to the
user or otherwise enter into a contractual relationship with the user.
Sec. 25. (a) The attorney general, a district attorney or a municipality
may bring a civil action against a chatbot provider that violates this act to:
(1) Enjoin the act or practice that is in violation of this act;
(2) enforce compliance with this act;
(3) obtain damages, civil penalties, restitution or other remedies on
behalf of the residents of the state of Kansas; or
(4) obtain reasonable attorney's fees and other litigation costs
reasonably incurred.
(b) A violation of sections 22 or 23, and amendments thereto, shall
constitute an injury in fact to a user.
(c) A user injured by a violation of sections 22 or 23, and
amendments thereto, may bring a civil action against the chatbot provider,
in which the court may award a prevailing plaintiff:
(1) Statutory damages of:
(A) An amount not to exceed $5,000 per violation for any violation of
section 22, and amendments thereto, or actual damages, whichever is
greater; and
(B) An amount not to exceed $5,000 in total for all violations of
section 23, and amendments thereto, or actual damages, whichever is
greater;
(2) punitive damages, for reckless and knowing violations;
(3) injunctive relief;
(4) declaratory relief; and
(5) reasonable attorney's fees and litigation costs.
Sec. 26. The provisions of the Kansas age-appropriate design code

act, the Kansas stopping likeness abuse by nonconsensual digital replicas
act and the Kansas saving human connection act are severable. If any
portion of any such act is held by a court to be unconstitutional or invalid,
or the application of any portion of such act to any person or circumstance
is held by a court to be unconstitutional or invalid, the invalidity shall not
affect other portions of such act that can be given effect without the invalid
portion or application, and the applicability of such other portions of such
act to any person or circumstance remains valid and enforceable.
Sec. 27. This act shall take effect and be in force from and after
January 1, 2027, and its publication in the statute book.
