SECOND REGULAR SESSION
SENATE COMMITTEE SUBSTITUTE FOR

SENATE BILL NO. 841
103RD GENERAL ASSEMBLY
4822S.02C

KRISTINA MARTIN, Secretary

AN ACT
To repeal sections 96.192, 96.196, 167.627, 167.630, 190.098, 190.246, 191.1146, 195.417,
196.990, 198.022, 198.070, 206.110, 208.662, 321.621, 332.081, 334.108, 335.081,
338.010, 338.333, 338.710, and 579.060, RSMo, and to enact in lieu thereof thirtyseven new sections relating to health care, with penalty provisions.
Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

Section A.

Sections 96.192, 96.196, 167.627, 167.630,

190.098, 190.246, 191.1146, 195.417, 196.990, 198.022, 198.070,

206.110, 208.662, 321.621, 332.081, 334.108, 335.081, 338.010,

338.333, 338.710, and 579.060, RSMo, are repealed and thirty-

seven new sections enacted in lieu thereof, to be known as

sections

190.098, 190.246, 191.708, 191.1146, 192.021, 195.417, 196.990,

197.708, 198.022, 198.070, 206.110, 206.158, 208.149, 208.662,

208.1400, 208.1405, 208.1410, 208.1415, 208.1420, 208.1425,

210.225, 321.621, 332.081, 334.108, 335.081, 338.010, 338.333,

338.710, 376.1245, 376.1280, and 579.060, to read as follows:

9.412,

9.412.

9.418,

96.192,

96.196,

167.627,

167.630,

The month of September each year is hereby

designated as "Brain Aneurysm Awareness Month" in Missouri.

The citizens of this state are encouraged to participate in

appropriate events and activities to raise awareness about

the causes of and treatments for brain aneurysms, which

affect nearly two hundred thousand people each year.

EXPLANATION-Matter enclosed in bold-faced brackets [thus] in this bill is not enacted
and is intended to be omitted in the law.

9.418.

The last full week of April each year shall be

known as "Infertility Awareness Week" in Missouri.

Infertility is a medical condition defined by the inability

to achieve pregnancy after twelve months or more of regular,

unprotected sexual activity, or the inability to carry a

pregnancy to live birth, affecting millions of individuals

and couples worldwide.

one in eight couples in the United States experience

infertility, impacting people across all racial, ethnic,

socioeconomic, and cultural backgrounds.

this state are encouraged to participate in appropriate

events and activities to raise awareness about infertility

to help reduce stigma, foster understanding, and promote

equitable access to fertility treatments and family-building

options, including assisted reproductive technologies,

adoption, and surrogacy.

96.192. 1.

It is estimated that approximately

The citizens of

The board of trustees of any hospital

authorized under subsection 2 of this section, and

established and organized under the provisions of sections

96.150 to 96.229[,]:

(1) May invest up to [twenty-five] fifty percent of

the hospital's "available funds", defined in this section as

funds not required for immediate disbursement in obligations

or for the operation of the hospital [in any United States

investment grade fixed income funds or any diversified stock

funds, or both.], into:

(a)

Any mutual funds that invest in stocks, bonds, or

real estate, or any combination thereof;

(b)

Bonds that have:

a.

One of the five highest long-term ratings or the

highest short-term rating issued by a nationally recognized

rating agency; and

b.

A final maturity of ten years or less;

(c)

Money market investments; or

(d)

Any combination of investments described in

paragraphs (a) to (c) of this subdivision; and
(2)

Shall invest the remaining percentage of any

available funds not invested as allowed under subdivision

(1) of this subsection into any investment in which the

state treasurer is allowed to invest.

2. The provisions of this section shall only apply if
the hospital:

(1) Receives less than [one] three percent of its

annual revenues from municipal, county, or state taxes; and

(2) Receives less than [one] three percent of its

annual revenue from appropriated funds from the municipality

in which such hospital is located.

96.196. 1.

A hospital organized under this chapter

may purchase, operate or lease, as lessor or lessee, related

facilities or engage in health care activities, except in

counties of the third or fourth classification (other than

the county in which the hospital is located) where there

already exists a hospital organized pursuant to this chapter

[and chapter 205 or 206]; provided, however, that this

exception shall not prohibit the continuation of existing

activities otherwise allowed by law.

2. If a hospital organized pursuant to this chapter

accepts appropriated funds from the city during the twelve

months immediately preceding the date that the hospital

purchases, operates or leases its first related facility

outside the city boundaries or engages in its first health

care activity outside the city boundaries, the governing

body of the city shall approve the hospital's plan for such

purchase, operation or lease prior to implementation of the

plan.

167.627.

1. For purposes of this section, the

following terms shall mean:
(1) "Epinephrine delivery device", a single-use device

used for the delivery of a premeasured dose of epinephrine

into the human body;

(2) "Medication", any medicine prescribed or ordered

by a physician for the treatment of asthma or anaphylaxis,

including without limitation inhaled bronchodilators and

[auto-injectible] epinephrine delivery devices;

[(2)] (3)

"Self-administration", a pupil's

discretionary use of medication prescribed by a physician or

under a written treatment plan from a physician.

2. Each board of education and its employees and

agents in this state shall grant any pupil in the school

authorization for the possession and self-administration of

medication to treat such pupil's chronic health condition,

including but not limited to asthma or anaphylaxis if:

(1) A licensed physician prescribed or ordered such

medication for use by the pupil and instructed such pupil in

the correct and responsible use of such medication;

(2) The pupil has demonstrated to the pupil's licensed

physician or the licensed physician's designee, and the

school nurse, if available, the skill level necessary to use

the medication and any device necessary to administer such

medication prescribed or ordered;

(3) The pupil's physician has approved and signed a

written treatment plan for managing the pupil's chronic

health condition, including asthma or anaphylaxis episodes

and for medication for use by the pupil.

Such plan shall

include a statement that the pupil is capable of self-

administering the medication under the treatment plan;

(4) The pupil's parent or guardian has completed and

submitted to the school any written documentation required

by the school, including the treatment plan required under

subdivision (3) of this subsection and the liability

statement required under subdivision (5) of this subsection;

and

(5) The pupil's parent or guardian has signed a

statement acknowledging that the school district and its

employees or agents shall incur no liability as a result of

any injury arising from the self-administration of

medication by the pupil or the administration of such

medication by school staff.

construed to release the school district and its employees

or agents from liability for negligence.

Such statement shall not be

3. An authorization granted under subsection 2 of this
section shall:
(1) Permit such pupil to possess and self-administer

such pupil's medication while in school, at a school-

sponsored activity, and in transit to or from school or

school-sponsored activity; and

(2) Be effective only for the same school and school

year for which it is granted.

renewed by the pupil's parent or guardian each subsequent

school year in accordance with this section.

Such authorization shall be

4. Any current duplicate prescription medication, if

provided by a pupil's parent or guardian or by the school,

shall be kept at a pupil's school in a location at which the

pupil or school staff has immediate access in the event of

an asthma or anaphylaxis emergency.

5. The information described in subdivisions (3) and

(4) of subsection 2 of this section shall be kept on file at

the pupil's school in a location easily accessible in the

event of an emergency.

167.630.

1. As used in this section, the term

"epinephrine delivery device" has the same meaning given to

the term in section 167.627.

2. Each school board may authorize a school nurse

licensed under chapter 335 who is employed by the school

district and for whom the board is responsible for to

maintain an adequate supply of [prefilled auto syringes of]

epinephrine [with fifteen-hundredths milligram or three-

tenths milligram] delivery devices at the school. The nurse

shall recommend to the school board the number of

[prefilled] epinephrine [auto syringes] delivery devices

that the school should maintain.

[2.] 3. To obtain [prefilled] epinephrine [auto

syringes] delivery devices for a school district, a

prescription written by a licensed physician, a physician's

assistant, or nurse practitioner is required.

prescriptions, the school district shall be designated as

the patient, the nurse's name shall be required, and the

prescription shall be filled at a licensed pharmacy.

For such

[3.] 4. A school nurse, contracted agent trained by a

nurse, or other school employee trained by and supervised by

the nurse shall have the discretion to use an epinephrine

[auto syringe] delivery device on any student the school

nurse, trained employee, or trained contracted agent

believes is having a life-threatening anaphylactic reaction

based on the training in recognizing an acute episode of an

anaphylactic reaction.

concerning immunity from civil liability for trained

The provisions of section 167.624

employees administering lifesaving methods shall apply to

trained employees administering [a prefilled auto syringe]

an epinephrine delivery device under this section.

contracted agents shall have immunity from civil liability

for administering [a prefilled auto syringe] an epinephrine

delivery device under this section.

190.098.

Trained

1. As used in this section, the term

"community paramedic services" means services that are:

(1)

Provided by any entity that:

(a)

Employs licensed paramedics who are certified as

community paramedics by the department; and
(b)

Has received an endorsement by the department as a

community paramedic service entity;
(2)

Provided in a nonemergent setting, independent of

a 911 system or emergency summons;
(3)

Consistent with the training and education, as

well as within the scope of skill and practice, of the

personnel and with the supervisory standard approved by the

medical director; and

(4)

Reflected and documented in the entity's patient

care plans or protocols approved by the medical director in

accordance with section 190.142.

2. In order for a person to be eligible for

certification by the department as a community paramedic, an

individual shall:

(1) Be currently [certified] licensed as a paramedic;

(2) Successfully complete or have successfully

completed a community paramedic certification program from a

college, university, or educational institution that has

been approved by the department or accredited by a national

accreditation organization approved by the department; and

(3) Complete an application form approved by the
department.
[2.] 3. A community paramedic shall practice in

accordance with protocols and supervisory standards

established by the medical director[.

shall provide services of a health care plan if the plan has

been developed by the patient's physician or by an advanced

practice registered nurse through a collaborative practice

arrangement with a physician or a physician assistant

through a collaborative practice arrangement with a

physician and there is no duplication of services to the

patient from another provider] in collaboration with the

ambulance service administrator.

are developed by the patient's physician, advanced practice

nurse practitioner, or physician assistant shall be

implemented through a collaboration with the medical

director and agency.

[3.] 4.

A community paramedic

Patient care plans that

(1) Any ambulance service [shall enter into a

written contract to provide community paramedic services in

another ambulance service area, as that term is defined in

section 190.100.

for an indefinite period of time, as long as it includes at

least a sixty-day cancellation notice by either ambulance

service] that seeks to provide community paramedic services

outside of its ambulance service area, as described in

section 190.105 and administered by the department, and in

the service area of another ambulance service that currently

provides community paramedic services shall be required to

have a memorandum of understanding with that ambulance

service regarding the provision of such community paramedic

services.

paramedic services may provide community paramedic services

The contract that is agreed upon may be

An ambulance service that provides community

without a memorandum of understanding in the ambulance

service area of an ambulance service that is not providing

community paramedic services, but the ambulance service

providing community paramedic services shall provide

notification to the ambulance service with emergency service

responsibilities in the service area of the general

community paramedic activities being performed.

(2)

An ambulance service that provides community

paramedic services and that has executed formal contracts or

agreements with health care institutions, hospitals, health

clinics, or insurance companies for the provision of

community paramedic services shall be permitted to honor

those agreements.

(3)

For sustained services provided outside the county

of the ambulance services primary 911 response territory

where another licensed ambulance service also offers

community paramedic services, the community paramedic

program shall coordinate with the local ambulance service.

(4)

Any emergency medical response agency seeking to

provide community paramedic services within its designated

response service area may do so if the ground ambulance

service covering the area within which the emergency medical

response agency is located does not provide community

paramedic services.

provide community paramedic services, the ground ambulance

service may establish, at its sole discretion, a memorandum

of understanding with the emergency medical response agency

planning to offer community paramedic services in order to

coordinate programs and avoid service duplication.

emergency medical response agency is providing community

paramedic services in a service area before the ground

ambulance service in that service area begins offering

If such ground ambulance service does

If an

community paramedic services, the emergency medical response

agency and the ground ambulance service shall establish a

memorandum of understanding for the coordination of services.

(5)

A community paramedic program shall notify the

appropriate local ambulance service when providing services

within the service area of an ambulance service.

(6)

The department shall establish regulations for the

purpose of recognizing community paramedic service entities

that have met the standards necessary to provide community

paramedic services, including physician medical oversight,

training, patient record keeping, formal relationships with

primary care services where necessary, and quality

improvement policies.

endorsement to any community paramedic service entity that

meets such standards that allows the entity to provide

community paramedic services for a period of five years.

[4.] 5. A community paramedic is subject to the

The department shall issue an

provisions of sections 190.001 to 190.245 and rules

promulgated under sections 190.001 to 190.245.

[5.] 6. No person shall hold himself or herself out as

a community paramedic or provide the services of a community

paramedic unless such person is certified by the department.

[6.] 7. The medical director shall approve the
implementation of the community paramedic program.
[7.] 8. Any rule or portion of a rule, as that term is

defined in section 536.010, that is created under the

authority delegated in this section shall become effective

only if it complies with and is subject to all of the

provisions of chapter 536 and, if applicable, section

536.028. This section and chapter 536 are nonseverable and

if any of the powers vested with the general assembly

pursuant to chapter 536 to review, to delay the effective

date, or to disapprove and annul a rule are subsequently

held unconstitutional, then the grant of rulemaking

authority and any rule proposed or adopted after August 28,

2013, shall be invalid and void.

190.246.

terms shall mean:

1. As used in this section, the following

(1) "Eligible person, firm, organization or other

entity", an ambulance service or emergency medical response

agency, an emergency medical responder, or an emergency

medical technician who is employed by, or an enrolled

member, person, firm, organization or entity designated by,

rule of the department of health and senior services in

consultation with other appropriate agencies.

eligible persons, firms, organizations or other entities

shall be subject to the rules promulgated by the director of

the department of health and senior services;

All such

(2) "Emergency health care provider":

(a) A physician licensed pursuant to chapter 334 with

knowledge and experience in the delivery of emergency care;

or

(b) A hospital licensed pursuant to chapter 197 that
provides emergency care;
(3)

"Epinephrine delivery device", a single-use device

used for the delivery of a premeasured dose of epinephrine

into the human body.

2. Possession and use of epinephrine [auto-injector]
delivery devices shall be limited as follows:
(1) No person shall use an epinephrine [auto-injector]

delivery device unless such person has successfully

completed a training course in the use of epinephrine [auto-

injector] delivery devices approved by the director of the

department of health and senior services.

Nothing in this

section shall prohibit the use of an epinephrine [auto-

injector] delivery device:

(a) By a health care professional licensed or

certified by this state who is acting within the scope of

his or her practice; or

(b) By a person acting pursuant to a lawful
prescription;

(2) Every person, firm, organization and entity

authorized to possess and use epinephrine [auto-injector]

delivery devices pursuant to this section shall use,

maintain and dispose of such devices in accordance with the

rules of the department; and

(3) Every use of an epinephrine [auto-injector]

delivery device pursuant to this section shall immediately

be reported to the emergency health care provider.

3. (1) Use of an epinephrine [auto-injector] delivery

device pursuant to this section shall be considered first

aid or emergency treatment for the purpose of any law

relating to liability.

(2) Purchase, acquisition, possession or use of an

epinephrine [auto-injector] delivery device pursuant to this

section shall not constitute the unlawful practice of

medicine or the unlawful practice of a profession.

(3) Any person otherwise authorized to sell or provide

an epinephrine [auto-injector] delivery device may sell or

provide it to a person authorized to possess it pursuant to

this section.

4. Any person, firm, organization or entity that

violates the provisions of this section is guilty of a class

B misdemeanor.

191.708.

1. The chief medical officer or chief

medical director of the department of health and senior

services, the department of mental health, or the MO

HealthNet division of the department of social services, or

any licensed physician acting with the express written

consent of the director of any such department or division,

may, within his or her scope of practice, issue:

(1)

Nonspecific recommendations for doula services;

(2)

A medical standing order for prenatal vitamins; or

(3)

A medical standing order for any other purpose,

other than for controlled substances, that is promulgated by

rule in compliance with chapter 536.

2.

Any standing order issued under this section shall:

(1)

Be made available on the relevant department's

website while in effect;
(2)

Terminate upon removal of the issuing medical

professional's authority under this section by vacancy of

his or her position or otherwise; and

(3)

If not terminated sooner under subdivision (2) of

this subsection, expire within one year of issuance unless

renewed.

3.

The chief medical officer, chief medical director,

or other authorized and licensed physician described in

subsection 1 of this section shall be immune from criminal

prosecution, disciplinary action from his or her

professional licensing board, and civil liability for

issuing a medical standing order or recommendation in

accordance with this section, including for any outcome

related to the standing order or recommendation.

191.1146.

1. Physicians licensed under chapter 334

who use telemedicine shall ensure that a properly

established physician-patient relationship exists with the

person who receives the telemedicine services.

physician-patient relationship may be established by:

The

(1) An in-person encounter through a medical
[interview] evaluation and physical examination;

(2) Consultation with another physician, or that

physician's delegate, who has an established relationship

with the patient and an agreement with the physician to

participate in the patient's care; or

(3) A telemedicine encounter, if the standard of care

does not require an in-person encounter, and in accordance

with evidence-based standards of practice and telemedicine

practice guidelines that address the clinical and

technological aspects of telemedicine.

2. In order to establish a physician-patient
relationship through telemedicine:
(1) The technology utilized shall be sufficient to

establish an informed diagnosis as though the medical

[interview] evaluation and, if required to meet the standard

of care, the physical examination has been performed in

person; [and]

(2) Prior to providing treatment, including issuing

prescriptions or physician certifications under Article XIV

of the Missouri Constitution, a physician who uses

telemedicine shall [interview] evaluate the patient, collect

or review the patient's relevant medical history, and

perform an examination sufficient for the diagnosis and

treatment of the patient.

by the patient, whether via the internet or telephone, shall

be reviewed by the treating health care professional, as

defined in section 376.1350, and shall include such

information sufficient to provide the information as though

the medical evaluation has been performed in person,

otherwise such questionnaire does not constitute an

[A] Any questionnaire completed

acceptable medical [interview] evaluation and examination

for the provision of treatment by telehealth; and

(3)

Any provider that uses a questionnaire to

establish a physician-patient relationship through

telemedicine shall be employed or contracted with a business

entity that is licensed to provide health care in this state.

3.

A health care provider, utilizing a medical

evaluation questionnaire completed by the patient by way of

the internet or telephone, shall provide a written report to

the patient's primary health care provider within fourteen

days of evaluation, if provided by the patient, that

contains:

(1)

The identity of the patient;

(2)

The date of the evaluation;

(3)

The diagnosis and treatment provided, if any; and

(4)

Any further instructions provided to the patient.

192.021.

1. The department of health and senior

services shall be authorized to contract directly with an

entity on a qualified vendor list composed of Missouri

affiliates of national public health associations or public

health institutes in order to assist in carrying out its

duties to promote the health and wellbeing of the residents

of this state.

limited to, efforts to assist in the delivery of health

services to residents throughout the state and the

administration of grant funds and related programs.

2.

Such contracts may include, but not be

Within sixty days after the end of each fiscal

year, the department and the designated affiliate shall

provide the general assembly with an annual report and

accounting of any appropriations and grant funds received

and expended by the designated affiliate pursuant to this

section during the immediate prior fiscal year and may

provide recommendations and suggestions for improvement in

services provided.

195.417.

1. The limits specified in this section

shall not apply to any quantity of such product, mixture, or

preparation which must be dispensed, sold, or distributed in

a pharmacy pursuant to a valid prescription.

2. Within any thirty-day period, no person shall sell,

dispense, or otherwise provide to the same individual, and

no person shall purchase, receive, or otherwise acquire more

than the following amount:

drug product containing any detectable amount of ephedrine,

phenylpropanolamine, or pseudoephedrine, or any of their

salts or optical isomers, or salts of optical isomers,

either as:

any number of packages of any

(1) The sole active ingredient; or

(2) One of the active ingredients of a combination

drug; or
(3) A combination of any of the products specified in

subdivisions (1) and (2) of this subsection;

in any total amount greater than seven and two-tenths grams,

without regard to the number of transactions.

3. Within any twenty-four-hour period, no pharmacist,

intern pharmacist, or registered pharmacy technician shall

sell, dispense, or otherwise provide to the same individual,

and no person shall purchase, receive, or otherwise acquire

more than the following amount:

any drug product containing any detectable amount of

ephedrine, phenylpropanolamine, or pseudoephedrine, or any

of their salts or optical isomers, or salts of optical

isomers, either as:

any number of packages of

(1) The sole active ingredient; or

(2) One of the active ingredients of a combination
drug; or
(3) A combination of any of the products specified in

subdivisions (1) and (2) of this subsection;

in any total amount greater than three and six-tenths grams

without regard to the number of transactions.

4. Within any twelve-month period, no person shall

sell, dispense, or otherwise provide to the same individual,

and no person shall purchase, receive, or otherwise acquire

more than the following amount:

any drug product containing any detectable amount of

ephedrine, phenylpropanolamine, or pseudoephedrine, or any

of their salts or optical isomers, or salts of optical

isomers, either as:

any number of packages of

(1) The sole active ingredient; or

(2) One of the active ingredients of a combination

drug; or
(3) A combination of any of the products specified in

subdivisions (1) and (2) of this subsection;

in any total amount greater than [forty-three] sixty-one and

two-tenths grams, without regard to the number of

transactions.

5. All packages of any compound, mixture, or

preparation containing any detectable quantity of ephedrine,

phenylpropanolamine, or pseudoephedrine, or any of their

salts or optical isomers, or salts of optical isomers,

except those that are excluded from Schedule V in subsection

or 18 of section 195.017, shall be offered for sale only

from behind a pharmacy counter where the public is not

permitted, and only by a registered pharmacist or registered

pharmacy technician under section 195.017.

6. Each pharmacy shall submit information regarding

sales of any compound, mixture, or preparation as specified

in this section in accordance with transmission methods and

frequency established by the department by regulation.

7. (1)

As used in this subsection, "administrator of

the real-time electronic pseudoephedrine tracking system"

means the entity responsible for developing, implementing,

and maintaining the data collection system described in 19

CSR 30-1.074 or any successor regulation.

(2)

Beginning October 1, 2026, and continuing

thereafter, any manufacturer of any compound, mixture, or

preparation specified in this section that is sold in or

into the state shall, on a monthly basis, pay fees to the

administrator of the real-time electronic pseudoephedrine

tracking system.

(3)

The administrator of the real-time electronic

pseudoephedrine tracking system shall be responsible for

setting the fee levels required under this subsection.

(4)

Upon the request of the department of health and

senior services, any manufacturer required to pay fees under

this subsection shall provide written documentation

demonstrating that the manufacturer has paid such fees.

8. No prescription shall be required for the

dispensation, sale, or distribution of any drug product

containing any detectable amount of ephedrine,

phenylpropanolamine, or pseudoephedrine, or any of their

salts or optical isomers, or salts of optical isomers, in an

amount within the limits described in subsections 2, 3, and

of this section.

highway patrol shall report to the revisor of statutes and

The superintendent of the Missouri state

the general assembly by February first when the statewide

number of methamphetamine laboratory seizure incidents

exceeds three hundred incidents in the previous calendar

year. The provisions of this subsection shall expire on

April first of the calendar year in which the revisor of

statutes receives such notification.

[8.] 9. This section shall supersede and preempt any

local ordinances or regulations, including any ordinances or

regulations enacted by any political subdivision of the

state. This section shall not apply to the sale of any

animal feed products containing ephedrine or any naturally

occurring or herbal ephedra or extract of ephedra.

[9.] 10.

Any local ordinances or regulations enacted

by any political subdivision of the state prior to August

28, 2020, requiring a prescription for the dispensation,

sale, or distribution of any drug product containing any

detectable amount of ephedrine, phenylpropanolamine, or

pseudoephedrine, or any of their salts or optical isomers,

or salts of optical isomers, in an amount within the limits

described in subsections 2, 3, and 4 of this section shall

be void and of no effect and no such political subdivision

shall maintain or enforce such ordinance or regulation.

[10.] 11.

All logs, records, documents, and electronic

information maintained for the dispensing of these products

shall be open for inspection and copying by municipal,

county, and state or federal law enforcement officers whose

duty it is to enforce the controlled substances laws of this

state or the United States.

[11.] 12.

All persons who dispense or offer for sale

pseudoephedrine and ephedrine products, except those that

are excluded from Schedule V in subsection 17 or 18 of

section 195.017, shall ensure that all such products are

located only behind a pharmacy counter where the public is

not permitted.

[12.] 13.

The penalty for a knowing or reckless

violation of this section is found in section 579.060.

196.990.

terms shall mean:

1. As used in this section, the following

(1) "Administer", the direct application of an

epinephrine [auto-injector] delivery device to the body of

an individual;

(2) "Authorized entity", any entity or organization at

or in connection with which allergens capable of causing

anaphylaxis may be present including, but not limited to,

qualified first responders, as such term is defined in

section 321.621, facilities licensed under chapter 198,

restaurants, recreation camps, youth sports leagues, child

care facilities, amusement parks, and sports arenas.

"Authorized entity" shall not include any public school or

public charter school;

(3) "Epinephrine [auto-injector] delivery device", a

single-use device used for the [automatic injection]

delivery of a premeasured dose of epinephrine into the human

body;

(4) "Physician", a physician licensed in this state
under chapter 334;
(5) "Provide", the supply of one or more epinephrine
[auto-injectors] delivery devices to an individual;
(6) "Self-administration", a person's discretionary
use of an epinephrine [auto-injector] delivery device.

2. A physician may prescribe epinephrine [auto-

injectors] delivery devices in the name of an authorized

entity for use in accordance with this section, and

pharmacists, physicians, and other persons authorized to

dispense prescription medications may dispense epinephrine

[auto-injectors] delivery devices under a prescription

issued in the name of an authorized entity.

3. An authorized entity may acquire and stock a supply

of epinephrine [auto-injectors] delivery devices under a

prescription issued in accordance with this section.

epinephrine [auto-injectors] delivery devices shall be

stored in a location readily accessible in an emergency and

in accordance with the epinephrine [auto-injector's]

delivery device's instructions for use and any additional

requirements established by the department of health and

senior services by rule.

designate employees or agents who have completed the

training required under this section to be responsible for

the storage, maintenance, and general oversight of

epinephrine [auto-injectors] delivery devices acquired by

the authorized entity.

Such

An authorized entity shall

4. An authorized entity that acquires a supply of

epinephrine [auto-injectors] delivery devices under a

prescription issued in accordance with this section shall

ensure that:

(1) Expected epinephrine [auto-injector] delivery

device users receive training in recognizing symptoms of

severe allergic reactions including anaphylaxis and the use

of epinephrine [auto-injectors] delivery devices from a

nationally recognized organization experienced in training

laypersons in emergency health treatment or another entity

or person approved by the department of health and senior

services;

(2) All epinephrine [auto-injectors] delivery devices

are maintained and stored according to the epinephrine [auto-

injector's] delivery device's instructions for use;

(3) Any person who provides or administers an

epinephrine [auto-injector] delivery device to an individual

who the person believes in good faith is experiencing

anaphylaxis activates the emergency medical services system

as soon as possible; and

(4) A proper review of all situations in which an

epinephrine [auto-injector] delivery device is used to

render emergency care is conducted.

5. Any authorized entity that acquires a supply of

epinephrine [auto-injectors] delivery devices under a

prescription issued in accordance with this section shall

notify the emergency communications district or the

ambulance dispatch center of the primary provider of

emergency medical services where the epinephrine [auto-

injectors] delivery devices are to be located within the

entity's facility.

6. No person shall provide or administer an

epinephrine [auto-injector] delivery device to any

individual who is under eighteen years of age without the

verbal consent of a parent or guardian who is present at the

time when provision or administration of the epinephrine

[auto-injector] delivery device is needed.

however, that a person may provide or administer an

epinephrine [auto-injector] delivery device to such an

individual without the consent of a parent or guardian if

the parent or guardian is not physically present and the

person reasonably believes the individual shall be in

imminent danger without the provision or administration of

the epinephrine [auto-injector] delivery device.

Provided,

7. The following persons and entities shall not be

liable for any injuries or related damages that result from

the administration or self-administration of an epinephrine

[auto-injector] delivery device in accordance with this

section that may constitute ordinary negligence:

(1) An authorized entity that possesses and makes

available epinephrine [auto-injectors] delivery devices and

its employees, agents, and other trained persons;

(2) Any person who uses an epinephrine [auto-injector]
delivery device made available under this section;

(3) A physician that prescribes epinephrine [auto-

injectors] delivery devices to an authorized entity; or

(4) Any person or entity that conducts the training

described in this section.

Such immunity does not apply to acts or omissions

constituting a reckless disregard for the safety of others

or willful or wanton conduct.

epinephrine [auto-injector] delivery device in accordance

with this section shall not be considered the practice of

medicine. The immunity from liability provided under this

subsection is in addition to and not in lieu of that

provided under section 537.037.

located in this state shall not be liable for any injuries

or related damages that result from the provision or

administration of an epinephrine [auto-injector] delivery

device by its employees or agents outside of this state if

the entity or its employee or agent is not liable for such

injuries or related damages under the laws of the state in

which such provision or administration occurred.

person who is in compliance with this section and who in

good faith and exercising reasonable care fails to

administer an epinephrine [auto-injector] delivery device

shall be liable for such failure.

The administration of an

An authorized entity

No trained

8. All basic life support ambulances and stretcher

vans operated in the state shall be equipped with

epinephrine [auto-injectors] delivery devices and be staffed

by at least one individual trained in the use of epinephrine

[auto-injectors] delivery devices.

9. The provisions of this section shall apply in all

counties within the state and any city not within a county.

10. Nothing in this section shall be construed as

superseding the provisions of section 167.630.
197.708.

Each hospital shall display in a prominent

place within the waiting rooms of the emergency department

and the labor and delivery department a printed sign with

the following text in all capital letters:

ASSAULTING A HEALTH CARE PROFESSIONAL WHO IS ENGAGED IN THE

PERFORMANCE OF HIS OR HER OFFICIAL DUTIES, INCLUDING

STRIKING A HEALTH CARE PROFESSIONAL WITH ANY BODILY FLUID,

IS A SERIOUS CRIME AND WILL BE PROSECUTED TO THE FULLEST

EXTENT OF THE LAW.".

198.022.

"WARNING:

1. Upon receipt of an application for a

license to operate a facility, the department shall review

the application, investigate the applicant and the

statements sworn to in the application for license and

conduct any necessary inspections.

issued if the following requirements are met:

A license shall be

(1) The statements in the application are true and
correct;
(2) The facility and the operator are in substantial

compliance with the provisions of sections 198.003 to

198.096 and the standards established thereunder;

(3) The applicant has the financial capacity to
operate the facility;

(4) The administrator of an assisted living facility,

a skilled nursing facility, or an intermediate care facility

is currently licensed under the provisions of chapter 344;

(5) Neither the operator nor any principals in the

operation of the facility have ever been convicted of a

felony offense concerning the operation of a long-term

health care facility or other health care facility or ever

knowingly acted or knowingly failed to perform any duty

which materially and adversely affected the health, safety,

welfare or property of a resident, while acting in a

management capacity.

principal in the operation of the facility shall not be

under exclusion from participation in the Title XVIII

(Medicare) or Title XIX (Medicaid) program of any state or

territory;

The operator of the facility or any

(6) Neither the operator nor any principals involved

in the operation of the facility have ever been convicted of

a felony in any state or federal court arising out of

conduct involving either management of a long-term care

facility or the provision or receipt of health care;

(7) All fees due to the state have been paid.

2. Upon denial of any application for a license, the

department shall so notify the applicant in writing, setting

forth therein the reasons and grounds for denial.

3. The department may inspect any facility and any

records and may make copies of records, at the facility, at

the department's own expense, required to be maintained by

sections 198.003 to 198.096 or by the rules and regulations

promulgated thereunder at any time if a license has been

issued to or an application for a license has been filed by

the operator of such facility.

requested by the department shall be prepared by the staff

Copies of any records

of such facility within two business days or as determined

by the department.

disassemble any medical record during any inspection of the

facility, but may observe the photocopying or may make its

own copies if the facility does not have the technology to

make the copies.

section 198.525, the department shall make at least one

inspection per year, which shall be unannounced to the

operator. The department may make such other inspections,

announced or unannounced, as it deems necessary to carry out

the provisions of sections 198.003 to 198.136.

The department shall not remove or

In accordance with the provisions of

4. Whenever the department has reasonable grounds to

believe that a facility required to be licensed under

sections 198.003 to 198.096 is operating without a license,

and the department is not permitted access to inspect the

facility, or when a licensed operator refuses to permit

access to the department to inspect the facility, the

department shall apply to the circuit court of the county in

which the premises is located for an order authorizing entry

for such inspection, and the court shall issue the order if

it finds reasonable grounds for inspection or if it finds

that a licensed operator has refused to permit the

department access to inspect the facility.

5. Whenever the department is inspecting a facility in

response to an application from an operator located outside

of Missouri not previously licensed by the department, the

department may request from the applicant the past five

years compliance history of all facilities owned by the

applicant located outside of this state.

6.

(1) In lieu of any inspection required by sections

198.003 to 198.186, the department may accept, in whole or

in part, written reports of the survey of any state or

federal agency, or of any professional accrediting agency,

if such survey is:

(a)

surveys; and

(b)

Comparable in scope and method to the department's
Conducted in accordance with Title XVIII of the

Social Security Act.
(2)

Failure by a residential care facility or assisted

living facility to maintain an accredited status by a

recognized accrediting entity shall result in the assisted

living facility or residential care facility being subject

to an inspection pursuant to section 198.525.

(3)

The residential care facility or the assisted

living facility shall provide to the department the

accreditation report verifying accreditation status to be

published on the department's website and made publicly

available pursuant to section 198.030.

(4)

The residential care facility or the assisted

living facility shall immediately forward any complaint or

report of suspected abuse or neglect that is reported to the

accrediting entity to the department in the same manner as

provided under section 198.070.

198.070.

1. When any adult day care worker;

chiropractor; Christian Science practitioner; coroner;

dentist; embalmer; employee of the departments of social

services, mental health, or health and senior services;

employee of a local area agency on aging or an organized

area agency on aging program; funeral director; home health

agency or home health agency employee; hospital and clinic

personnel engaged in examination, care, or treatment of

persons; in-home services owner, provider, operator, or

employee; law enforcement officer; long-term care facility

administrator or employee; medical examiner; medical

resident or intern; mental health professional; minister;

nurse; nurse practitioner; optometrist; other health

practitioner; peace officer; pharmacist; physical therapist;

physician; physician's assistant; podiatrist; probation or

parole officer; psychologist; social worker; or other person

with the care of a person sixty years of age or older or an

eligible adult, as defined in section 192.2400, has

reasonable cause to believe that a resident of a facility

has been abused or neglected, he or she shall immediately

report or cause a report to be made to the department.

2. (1) The report shall contain the name and address

of the facility, the name of the resident, information

regarding the nature of the abuse or neglect, the name of

the complainant, and any other information which might be

helpful in an investigation.

(2) In the event of suspected sexual assault of the

resident, in addition to the report to be made to the

department, a report shall be made to the appropriate local

law enforcement agency in accordance with federal law under

the provisions of 42 U.S.C. Section 1320b-25.

3. Any person required in subsection 1 of this section

to report or cause a report to be made to the department who

knowingly fails to make a report within a reasonable time

after the act of abuse or neglect as required in this

subsection is guilty of a class A misdemeanor.

4. In addition to the penalties imposed by this

section, any administrator who knowingly conceals any act of

abuse or neglect resulting in death or serious physical

injury, as defined in section 556.061, is guilty of a class

E felony.

5. In addition to those persons required to report
pursuant to subsection 1 of this section, any other person

having reasonable cause to believe that a resident has been

abused or neglected may report such information to the

department.

6. Upon receipt of a report, the department shall

initiate an investigation within twenty-four hours and, as

soon as possible during the course of the investigation,

shall notify the resident's next of kin or responsible party

of the report and the investigation and further notify them

whether the report was substantiated or unsubstantiated

unless such person is the alleged perpetrator of the abuse

or neglect. As provided in section 192.2425, substantiated

reports of elder abuse shall be promptly reported by the

department to the appropriate law enforcement agency and

prosecutor.

7. If the investigation indicates possible abuse or

neglect of a resident, the investigator shall refer the

complaint together with the investigator's report to the

department director or the director's designee for

appropriate action.

completion, the department has reasonable cause to believe

that immediate removal is necessary to protect the resident

from abuse or neglect, the department or the local

prosecuting attorney may, or the attorney general upon

request of the department shall, file a petition for

temporary care and protection of the resident in a circuit

court of competent jurisdiction.

the petition is filed shall have equitable jurisdiction to

issue an ex parte order granting the department authority

for the temporary care and protection of the resident, for a

period not to exceed thirty days.

If, during the investigation or at its

The circuit court in which

8. Reports shall be confidential, as provided pursuant
to section 192.2500.

9. Anyone, except any person who has abused or

neglected a resident in a facility, who makes a report

pursuant to this section or who testifies in any

administrative or judicial proceeding arising from the

report shall be immune from any civil or criminal liability

for making such a report or for testifying except for

liability for perjury, unless such person acted negligently,

recklessly, in bad faith or with malicious purpose.

crime under section 565.189 for any person to knowingly file

a false report of elder abuse or neglect.

It is a

10. Within five working days after a report required

to be made pursuant to this section is received, the person

making the report shall be notified in writing of its

receipt and of the initiation of the investigation.

11. No person who directs or exercises any authority

in a facility shall evict, harass, dismiss or retaliate

against a resident or employee because such resident or

employee or any member of such resident's or employee's

family has made a report of any violation or suspected

violation of laws, ordinances or regulations applying to the

facility which the resident, the resident's family or an

employee has reasonable cause to believe has been committed

or has occurred.

information and referral telephone contact line, residents,

their families and employees of a facility shall be able to

obtain information about their rights, protections and

options in cases of eviction, harassment, dismissal or

retaliation due to a report being made pursuant to this

section.

Through the existing department

12. Any person who abuses or neglects a resident of a

facility is subject to criminal prosecution under section

565.184.

13. The department shall maintain the employee

disqualification list and place on the employee

disqualification list the names of any persons who are or

have been employed in any facility and who have been finally

determined by the department pursuant to section 192.2490 to

have knowingly or recklessly abused or neglected a

resident. For purposes of this section only, "knowingly"

and "recklessly" shall have the meanings that are ascribed

to them in this section.

respect to the person's conduct when a reasonable person

should be aware of the result caused by his or her conduct.

A person acts "recklessly" when the person consciously

disregards a substantial and unjustifiable risk that the

person's conduct will result in serious physical injury and

such disregard constitutes a gross deviation from the

standard of care that a reasonable person would exercise in

the situation.

A person acts "knowingly" with

14. The timely self-reporting of incidents to the

central registry by a facility shall continue to be

investigated in accordance with department policy, and shall

not be counted or reported by the department as a hot-line

call but rather a self-reported incident.

reported incident results in a regulatory violation, such

incident shall be reported as a substantiated report.

15.

If the self-

If a facility that is exempted from an annual

inspection under subsection 6 of section 198.022 has one or

more violations of a class I standard, as described in

section 198.085, then such facility shall be subject to a

full survey by the state under section 198.022.

206.110.

1. A hospital district, both within and

outside such district, except in counties of the third or

fourth classification (other than within the district

boundaries) where there already exists a hospital organized

pursuant to [chapters 96, 205 or] this chapter; provided,

however, that this exception shall not prohibit the

continuation or expansion of existing activities otherwise

allowed by law, shall have and exercise the following

governmental powers, and all other powers incidental,

necessary, convenient or desirable to carry out and

effectuate the express powers:

(1) To establish and maintain a hospital or hospitals

and hospital facilities, and to construct, acquire, develop,

expand, extend and improve any such hospital or hospital

facility including medical office buildings to provide

offices for rental to physicians and dentists on the

district hospital's medical or dental staff, and the

providing of sites therefor, including offstreet parking

space for motor vehicles;

(2) To acquire land in fee simple, rights in land and

easements upon, over or across land and leasehold interest

in land and tangible and intangible personal property used

or useful for the location, establishment, maintenance,

development, expansion, extension or improvement of any

hospital or hospital facility.

dedication, purchase, gift, agreement, lease, use or adverse

possession or by condemnation;

The acquisition may be by

(3) To operate, maintain and manage a hospital and

hospital facilities, and to make and enter into contracts,

for the use, operation or management of a hospital or

hospital facilities; to engage in health care activities;

and to make and enter into leases of equipment and real

property, a hospital or hospital facilities, as lessor or

lessee, regardless of the duration of such lease; and to

provide rules and regulations for the operation, management

or use of a hospital or hospital facilities.

entered into pursuant to this subsection pertaining to the

lease of the hospital shall have a definite termination date

as negotiated by the parties, but this shall not preclude

the trustees from entering into a renewal of the agreement

with the same or other parties pertaining to the same or

other subjects upon such terms and conditions as the parties

may agree;

Any agreement

(4) To fix, charge and collect reasonable fees and

compensation for the use or occupancy of the hospital or any

part thereof, or any hospital facility, and for nursing

care, medicine, attendance, or other services furnished by

the hospital or hospital facilities, according to the rules

and regulations prescribed by the board from time to time;

(5) To borrow money and to issue bonds, notes,

certificates, or other evidences of indebtedness for the

purpose of accomplishing any of its corporate purposes,

subject to compliance with any condition or limitation set

forth in this chapter or otherwise provided by the

Constitution of the state of Missouri;

(6) To employ or enter into contracts for the

employment of any person, firm, or corporation, and for

professional services, necessary or desirable for the

accomplishment of the corporate objects of the district or

the proper administration, management, protection or control

of its property;

(7) To maintain the hospital for the benefit of the

inhabitants of the area comprising the district who are

sick, injured, or maimed regardless of race, creed or color,

and to adopt such reasonable rules and regulations as may be

necessary to render the use of the hospital of the greatest

benefit to the greatest number; to exclude from the use of

the hospital all persons who willfully disregard any of the

rules and regulations so established; to extend the

privileges and use of the hospital to persons residing

outside the area of the district upon such terms and

conditions as the board of directors prescribes by its rules

and regulations;

(8) To police its property and to exercise police

powers in respect thereto or in respect to the enforcement

of any rule or regulation provided by the ordinances of the

district and to employ and commission police officers and

other qualified persons to enforce the same;

(9) To lease to or allow for any institution of higher

education to use or occupy the hospital, any real estate or

facility owned or leased by the district or any part thereof

for the purpose of health care-related and general education

or training.

2. The use of any hospital or hospital facility of a

district shall be subject to the reasonable regulation and

control of the district and upon such reasonable terms and

conditions as shall be established by its board of directors.

3. A regulatory ordinance of a district adopted under

any provision of this section may provide for a suspension

or revocation of any rights or privileges within the control

of the district for a violation of any such regulatory

ordinance.

4. Nothing in this section or in other provisions of

this chapter shall be construed to authorize the district or

board to establish or enforce any regulation or rule in

respect to hospitalization or the operation or maintenance

of such hospital or any hospital facilities within its

jurisdiction which is in conflict with any federal or state

law or regulation applicable to the same subject matter.

206.158.

1. The board of directors of any hospital

district authorized under subsection 2 of this section, and

established and organized under the provisions of this

chapter:

(1)

May invest up to fifty percent of its "available

funds", defined in this section as funds not required for

immediate disbursement in obligations or for the operation

of the hospital district, into:

(a)

Any mutual funds that invest in stocks, bonds, or

real estate, or any combination thereof;

(b)

Bonds that have:

a.

One of the five highest long-term ratings or the

highest short-term rating issued by a nationally recognized

rating agency; and

b.

A final maturity of ten years or less;

(c)

Money market investments; or

(d)

Any combination of investments described in

paragraphs (a) to (c) of this subdivision; and
(2)

Shall invest the remaining percentage of any

available funds not invested as allowed under subdivision

(1) of this subsection into any investment in which the

state treasurer is allowed to invest.

2.

The provisions of this section shall apply only if

the hospital district receives less than three percent of

its annual revenues from hospital district or state taxes.

208.149.

terms mean:

(1)

1. As used in this section, the following

"Clinical pathology services", professional

medical services provided by a pathologist for the

examination, diagnosis, and interpretation of laboratory

tests performed on patient specimens to aid in the diagnosis

and treatment of disease.

Clinical pathology services

include, but are not limited to, hematology, microbiology,

immunology, clinical chemistry, molecular pathology, and

other laboratory-based diagnostic procedures;

(2)

"Hospital-based pathologist", a licensed physician

specializing in pathology who provides clinical pathology

services within a hospital setting;

(3)

"Professional component of clinical pathology

services", the portion of clinical pathology services that

involves the pathologist's professional expertise in

interpreting and supervising laboratory tests, excluding the

technical component of performing the laboratory tests.

2.

The fee for the professional component of clinical

pathology services shall be paid by MO HealthNet for

professional services provided by a hospital-based

pathologist for inpatient clinical pathology services

rendered to patients covered by the MO HealthNet program.

3.

The reimbursement amount for the professional

component of clinical pathology services shall be set at

thirty percent of the approved outpatient simplified fee

schedule based on Medicare's clinical laboratory fee

schedule for the corresponding clinical pathology services

payable by MO HealthNet.

4.

(1) If the fee for the professional component of

clinical pathology services is paid for professional

services provided by a pathologist employed by the hospital

where the clinical pathology services are rendered to

covered MO HealthNet patients, the professional fee shall be

paid directly to the hospital.

(2)

If the fee for the professional component of

clinical pathology services is paid for professional

services provided by a pathologist who is not employed by

the hospital where clinical pathology services are rendered

to covered MO HealthNet patients, the professional fee shall

be paid directly to the third party providing the services.

5.

The department of social services shall promulgate

all necessary rules and regulations for the administration

of this section.

term is defined in section 536.010, that is created under

the authority delegated in this section shall become

effective only if it complies with and is subject to all of

the provisions of chapter 536 and, if applicable, section

536.028.

if any of the powers vested with the general assembly

pursuant to chapter 536 to review, to delay the effective

date, or to disapprove and annul a rule are subsequently

held unconstitutional, then the grant of rulemaking

authority and any rule proposed or adopted after August 28,

2026, shall be invalid and void.

Any rule or portion of a rule, as that

This section and chapter 536 are nonseverable and

208.662.

1. There is hereby established within the

department of social services the "Show-Me Healthy Babies

Program" as a separate children's health insurance program

(CHIP) for any low-income unborn child.

be established under the authority of Title XXI of the

federal Social Security Act, the State Children's Health

Insurance Program, as amended, and 42 CFR 457.1.

The program shall

2. For an unborn child to be enrolled in the show-me

healthy babies program, his or her mother shall not be

eligible for coverage under Title XIX of the federal Social

Security Act, the Medicaid program, as it is administered by

the state, and shall not have access to affordable employer-

subsidized health care insurance or other affordable health

care coverage that includes coverage for the unborn child.

In addition, the unborn child shall be in a family with

income eligibility of no more than three hundred percent of

the federal poverty level, or the equivalent modified

adjusted gross income, unless the income eligibility is set

lower by the general assembly through appropriations.

calculating family size as it relates to income eligibility,

the family shall include, in addition to other family

members, the unborn child, or in the case of a mother with a

multiple pregnancy, all unborn children.

In

3. Coverage for an unborn child enrolled in the show-

me healthy babies program shall include all prenatal care

and pregnancy-related services that benefit the health of

the unborn child and that promote healthy labor, delivery,

and birth, including childbirth education classes.

need not include services that are solely for the benefit of

the pregnant mother, that are unrelated to maintaining or

promoting a healthy pregnancy, and that provide no benefit

to the unborn child.

pregnancy-related assistance as defined in 42 U.S.C. Section

1397ll.

Coverage

However, the department may include

4. There shall be no waiting period before an unborn

child may be enrolled in the show-me healthy babies

program. In accordance with the definition of child in 42

CFR 457.10, coverage shall include the period from

conception to birth.

presumptive eligibility procedure for enrolling an unborn

child. There shall be verification of the pregnancy.

The department shall develop a

5. Coverage for the child shall continue for up to one

year after birth, unless otherwise prohibited by law or

unless otherwise limited by the general assembly through

appropriations.

6. (1) Pregnancy-related and postpartum coverage for

the mother shall begin on the day the pregnancy ends and

extend through the last day of the month that includes the

sixtieth day after the pregnancy ends, unless otherwise

prohibited by law or unless otherwise limited by the general

assembly through appropriations.

pregnancy-related assistance as defined in 42 U.S.C. Section

1397ll.

(2) (a)

The department may include

Subject to approval of any necessary state

plan amendments or waivers, beginning on July 6, 2023,

mothers eligible to receive coverage under this section

shall receive medical assistance benefits during the

pregnancy and during the twelve-month period that begins on

the last day of the woman's pregnancy and ends on the last

day of the month in which such twelve-month period ends,

consistent with the provisions of 42 U.S.C. Section

1397gg(e)(1)(J).

state plan amendments or waivers to implement the provisions

of this subdivision when the number of ineligible MO

HealthNet participants removed from the program in 2023

pursuant to section 208.239 exceeds the projected number of

beneficiaries likely to enroll in benefits in 2023 under

this subdivision and subdivision (28) of subsection 1 of

section 208.151, as determined by the department, by at

least one hundred individuals.

The department shall seek any necessary

(b) The provisions of this subdivision shall remain in

effect for any period of time during which the federal

authority under 42 U.S.C. Section 1397gg(e)(1)(J), as

amended, or any successor statutes or implementing

regulations, is in effect.

7. The department shall provide coverage for an unborn

child enrolled in the show-me healthy babies program in the

same manner in which the department provides coverage for

the children's health insurance program (CHIP) in the county

of the primary residence of the mother.

8. The department shall provide information about the

show-me healthy babies program to maternity homes as defined

in section 135.600, pregnancy resource centers as defined in

section 135.630, and other similar agencies and programs in

the state that assist unborn children and their mothers.

The department shall consider allowing such agencies and

programs to assist in the enrollment of unborn children in

the program, and in making determinations about presumptive

eligibility and verification of the pregnancy.

9. Within sixty days after August 28, 2014, the

department shall submit a state plan amendment or seek any

necessary waivers from the federal Department of Health and

Human Services requesting approval for the show-me healthy

babies program.

10. At least annually, the department shall prepare

and submit a report to the governor, the speaker of the

house of representatives, and the president pro tempore of

the senate analyzing and projecting the cost savings and

benefits, if any, to the state, counties, local communities,

school districts, law enforcement agencies, correctional

centers, health care providers, employers, other public and

private entities, and persons by enrolling unborn children

in the show-me healthy babies program.

projection of cost savings and benefits, if any, may include

but need not be limited to:

The analysis and

(1) The higher federal matching rate for having an

unborn child enrolled in the show-me healthy babies program

versus the lower federal matching rate for a pregnant woman

being enrolled in MO HealthNet or other federal programs;

(2) The efficacy in providing services to unborn

children through managed care organizations, group or

individual health insurance providers or premium assistance,

or through other nontraditional arrangements of providing

health care;

(3) The change in the proportion of unborn children

who receive care in the first trimester of pregnancy due to

a lack of waiting periods, by allowing presumptive

eligibility, or by removal of other barriers, and any

resulting or projected decrease in health problems and other

problems for unborn children and women throughout pregnancy;

at labor, delivery, and birth; and during infancy and

childhood;

(4) The change in healthy behaviors by pregnant women,

such as the cessation of the use of tobacco, alcohol,

illicit drugs, or other harmful practices, and any resulting

or projected short-term and long-term decrease in birth

defects; poor motor skills; vision, speech, and hearing

problems; breathing and respiratory problems; feeding and

digestive problems; and other physical, mental, educational,

and behavioral problems; and

(5) The change in infant and maternal mortality,

preterm births and low birth weight babies and any resulting

or projected decrease in short-term and long-term medical

and other interventions.

11. The show-me healthy babies program shall not be

deemed an entitlement program, but instead shall be subject

to a federal allotment or other federal appropriations and

matching state appropriations.

12. Nothing in this section shall be construed as

obligating the state to continue the show-me healthy babies

program if the allotment or payments from the federal

government end or are not sufficient for the program to

operate, or if the general assembly does not appropriate

funds for the program.

13. Nothing in this section shall be construed as

expanding MO HealthNet or fulfilling a mandate imposed by

the federal government on the state.

208.1400.

Sections 208.1400 to 208.1425 shall be known

and may be cited as the "Missouri Doula Reimbursement Act".
208.1405.

For purposes of sections 208.1400 to

208.1425, the following terms mean:
(1)

"Community-based network", a network that is

representative of a community or significant segments of a

community and engaged in meeting that community's needs in

the area of social, human, or health services;

(2)

"Community navigation services", services that

connect pregnant individuals and their families with

available resources using a community-based approach

including, but not limited to, an approach that understands

the services and supports available to pregnant and

postpartum individuals receiving MO HealthNet benefits and

facilitates access to those resources based upon an

assessment of social service needs;

(3)

"Doula", a trained professional providing

continuous physical, emotional, and informational support to

a pregnant individual, from the prenatal, the intrapartum,

and up to the first twelve months of the postpartum

periods.

pregnant individuals to community-based networks and

certified and licensed perinatal professionals in multiple

disciplines;

(4)

"Doula services", services provided by a doula;

(5)

"Fee-for-service", a payment model where services

Doulas also provide assistance by referring

are unbundled and paid for separately;

(6)

"Intrapartum", the period of pregnancy during

labor and delivery or childbirth.

this period are rendered to the pregnant individual;

(7)

Services provided during

"Managed care", the delivery of Medicaid health

benefits and additional services through contracted

arrangements between state Medicaid agencies and managed

care organizations that accept a set per member per month

(capitation) payment for these services;

(8)

pregnancy ends;

(9)

or childbirth.

rendered to the pregnant individual.

"Postpartum", the one-year period after a
"Prenatal", the period of pregnancy before labor

208.1410.

Services provided during this period are
The following doula services shall be

covered by the MO HealthNet program:
(1)

A combined total of six prenatal and postpartum

support sessions;

(2)

One birth attendance;

(3)

Up to two visits for general consultation on

lactation at any time during the prenatal and postpartum

periods; and

(4)

Community navigation services, except that any

community navigation services provided outside any visit or

session billed under subdivisions (1) to (3) of this section

shall be billed only up to ten times total over the course

of the pregnancy and postpartum period.

208.1415.

A doula shall be eligible for participation

as a provider of doula services covered by the MO HealthNet

program only if the doula:

(1)

Is enrolled as a MO HealthNet provider;

(2)

Is eighteen years of age or older;

(3)

Holds liability insurance as an individual or

through a supervising organization; and

(4)

Either:

(a)

Possesses a current certificate issued by a

national or Missouri-based doula training organization whose

curriculum meets guidelines established by the MO HealthNet

division by rule; or

(b)

Received training from a source not described in

paragraph (a) of this subdivision, or from multiple sources,

whose curriculum meets the guidelines established under

paragraph (a) of this subdivision as verified by a public

roster maintained by a statewide organization composed of

doula trainers from three or more independent, well-

established doula training organizations located in Missouri

whose purpose includes the validation of core competencies

of training.

208.1420.

1.

Once enrolled as a MO HealthNet

provider, a doula shall be eligible to enroll as a provider

with fee-for-service and managed care payers affiliated with

the MO HealthNet program.

2.

Doula services shall be reimbursed on a fee-for-

service schedule.

208.1425.

The MO HealthNet division shall promulgate

all necessary rules and regulations for the administration

of sections 208.1400 to 208.1425.

rule, as that term is defined in section 536.010, that is

created under the authority delegated in this section shall

become effective only if it complies with and is subject to

all of the provisions of chapter 536 and, if applicable,

section 536.028.

nonseverable and if any of the powers vested with the

general assembly pursuant to chapter 536 to review, to delay

Any rule or portion of a

This section and chapter 536 are

the effective date, or to disapprove and annul a rule are

subsequently held unconstitutional, then the grant of

rulemaking authority and any rule proposed or adopted after

August 28, 2026, shall be invalid and void.

210.225.

1. This section shall be known and may be

cited as "Elijah's Law".
2.

(1) Before July 1, 2028, each licensed child care

provider shall adopt a policy on allergy prevention and

response with priority given to addressing potentially

deadly food-borne allergies.

shall not be limited to, the following elements:

(a)

Such policy shall contain, but

Distinguishing between building-wide, room-level,

and individual approaches to allergy prevention and

management;

(b)

Providing an age-appropriate response to building-

level and room-level allergy education and prevention;
(c)

Describing the role of child care facility staff

in determining how to manage an allergy problem, whether

through a plan prepared for a child under Section 504 of the

Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, for a child with an

allergy that has been determined to be a disability, an

individualized health plan for a child who has an allergy

that is not disabling, or another allergy management plan;

(d)

Describing the role of other children and parents

in cooperating to prevent and mitigate allergies;
(e)

Addressing confidentiality issues involved with

sharing medical information, including specifying when

parental permission is required to make medical information

available; and

(f)

Coordinating with the department of elementary and

secondary education, local health authorities, and other

appropriate entities to ensure efficient promulgation of

accurate information and to ensure that existing child care

facility safety and environmental policies do not conflict.

(2)

Such policies may contain information from or

links to child care facility allergy prevention information

furnished by the Food Allergy Research & Education

organization or equivalent organization with a medical

advisory board that has allergy specialists.

3.

The department of elementary and secondary

education shall, in cooperation with any appropriate

professional association, develop a model policy or policies

before July 1, 2027.

321.621.

1. For the purposes of this section, the

following terms mean:
(1)

"Epinephrine delivery device", a single-use device

used for the delivery of a premeasured dose of epinephrine

into the human body;

(2) "Qualified first responder" [shall mean], any

state and local law enforcement agency staff, fire

department personnel, fire district personnel, or licensed

emergency medical technician who is acting under the

directives and established protocols of a medical director

who comes in contact with a person suffering from an

anaphylactic reaction and who has received training in

recognizing and responding to anaphylactic reactions and the

administration of epinephrine [auto-injector] delivery

devices to a person suffering from an apparent anaphylactic

reaction[.];

(3) "Qualified first responder agencies" [shall mean],

any state or local law enforcement agency, fire department,

or ambulance service that provides documented training to

its staff related to the administration of epinephrine [auto-

injector] delivery devices in an apparent anaphylactic

reaction.

2. The director of the department of health and senior

services, if a licensed physician, may issue a statewide

standing order for epinephrine [auto-injector] delivery

devices for adult patients to fire protection districts in

nonmetropolitan areas in Missouri as such areas are

determined according to the United States Census Bureau's

American Community Survey, based on the most recent of five-

year period estimate data in which the final year of the

estimate ends in either zero or five.

the department of health and senior services is not a

licensed physician, the department of health and senior

services may employ or contract with a licensed physician

who may issue such a statewide order with the express

consent of the director.

If the director of

3. Possession and use of epinephrine [auto-injector]

delivery devices for adult patients shall be limited as

follows:

(1) No person shall use an epinephrine [auto-injector]

delivery device pursuant to this section unless such person

has successfully completed a training course in the use of

epinephrine [auto-injector] delivery devices for adult

patients approved by the director of the department of

health and senior services.

prohibit the use of an epinephrine [auto-injector] delivery

device:

Nothing in this section shall

(a) By a health care professional licensed or

certified by this state who is acting within the scope of

his or her practice; or

(b) By a person acting pursuant to a lawful
prescription;

(2) Every person, firm, organization and entity

authorized to possess and use epinephrine [auto-injector]

delivery devices for adult patients pursuant to this section

shall use, maintain and dispose of such devices for adult

patients in accordance with the rules of the department; and

(3) Every use of an epinephrine [auto-injector]

delivery device pursuant to this section shall immediately

be reported to the emergency health care provider as defined

in section 190.246.

4. (1) Use of an epinephrine [auto-injector] delivery

device pursuant to this section shall be considered first

aid or emergency treatment for the purpose of any law

relating to liability.

(2) Purchase, acquisition, possession or use of an

epinephrine [auto-injector] delivery device pursuant to this

section shall not constitute the unlawful practice of

medicine or the unlawful practice of a profession.

(3) Any person otherwise authorized to sell or provide

an epinephrine [auto-injector] delivery device may sell or

provide it to a person authorized to possess it pursuant to

this section.

5. (1) There is hereby created in the state treasury

the "Epinephrine [Auto-injector] Delivery Devices for Fire

Personnel Fund", which shall consist of [money collected

under this section] moneys appropriated to the fund.

state treasurer shall be custodian of the fund.

accordance with sections 30.170 and 30.180, the state

treasurer may approve disbursements.

as set forth in this section shall be subject to

appropriation by the general assembly for the particular

purpose for which collected.

fund and money in the fund shall be used solely by the

The

In

The moneys in the fund

The fund shall be a dedicated

department of health and senior services for the purposes of

providing epinephrine [auto-injector] delivery devices for

adult patients to qualified first responder agencies as used

in this section.

(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of section 33.080

to the contrary, any moneys remaining in the fund at the end

of the biennium shall not revert to the credit of the

general revenue fund.

(3) The state treasurer shall invest moneys in the

fund in the same manner as other funds are invested.

interest and moneys earned on such investments shall be

credited to the fund.

332.081.

Any

1. Notwithstanding any other provision of

law to the contrary, hospitals licensed under chapter 197

shall be authorized to employ any or all of the following

oral health providers:

(1) A dentist licensed under this chapter for the

purpose of treating on hospital premises those patients who

present with a dental condition and such treatment is

necessary to ameliorate the condition for which they

presented such as severe pain or tooth abscesses;

(2) An oral and maxillofacial surgeon licensed under

this chapter for the purpose of treating oral conditions

that need to be ameliorated as part of treating the

underlying cause of the patient's medical needs including,

but not limited to, head and neck cancer, HIV or AIDS,

severe trauma resulting in admission to the hospital, organ

transplant, diabetes, or seizure disorders.

condition of treatment that such patients are admitted to

the hospital on either an in- or out-patient basis; and

It shall be a

(3) A maxillofacial prosthodontist licensed under this

chapter for the purpose of treating and supporting patients

of a head and neck cancer team or other complex care or

surgical team for the fabrication of appliances following

ablative surgery, surgery to correct birth anomalies,

extensive radiation treatment of the head or neck, or trauma-

related surgery.

2. No person or other entity shall practice dentistry

in Missouri or provide dental services as [defined]

described in section 332.071 unless and until the board has

issued to the person a certificate certifying that the

person has been duly registered as a dentist in Missouri or

the board has issued such certificate to an entity that has

been duly registered to provide dental services by licensed

dentists and dental hygienists and unless and until the

board has issued to the person a license, to be renewed each

period, as provided in this chapter, to practice dentistry

or as a dental hygienist, or has issued to the person or

entity a permit, to be renewed each period, to provide

dental services in Missouri.

be so construed as to make it unlawful for:

Nothing in this chapter shall

(1) A legally qualified physician or surgeon, who does
not practice dentistry as a specialty, from extracting teeth;
(2) A dentist licensed in a state other than Missouri

from making a clinical demonstration before a meeting of

dentists in Missouri;

(3) Dental students in any accredited dental school to

practice dentistry under the personal direction of

instructors;

(4) Dental hygiene students in any accredited dental

hygiene school to practice dental hygiene under the personal

direction of instructors;

(5) A duly registered and licensed dental hygienist in

Missouri to practice dental hygiene as defined in section

332.091;

(6) A dental assistant, certified dental assistant, or

expanded functions dental assistant to be delegated duties

as defined in section 332.093;

(7) A duly registered dentist or dental hygienist to

teach in an accredited dental or dental hygiene school;

(8) A person who has been granted a dental faculty

permit under section 332.183 to practice dentistry in the

scope of his or her employment at an accredited dental

school, college, or program in Missouri;

(9) A duly qualified anesthesiologist or nurse

anesthetist to administer an anesthetic in connection with

dental services or dental surgery;

(10) A person to practice dentistry in or for:

(a) The United States Armed Forces;

(b) The United States Public Health Service;

(c) Migrant, community, or health care for the

homeless health centers provided in Section 330 of the

Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. Section 254b);

(d) Federally qualified health centers as defined in

Section 1905(l) (42 U.S.C. Section 1396d(l)) of the Social

Security Act;

(e) Governmental entities, including county health
departments; or

(f) The United States Veterans Bureau; or

(11) A dentist licensed in a state other than Missouri

to evaluate a patient or render an oral, written, or

otherwise documented dental opinion when providing testimony

or records for the purpose of a civil or criminal action

before any judicial or administrative proceeding of this

state or other forum in this state.

3. No corporation shall practice dentistry as defined

in section 332.071 unless that corporation is organized

under the provisions of chapter 355 or 356 provided that a

corporation organized under the provisions of chapter 355

and qualifying as an organization under 26 U.S.C. Section

501(c)(3) may only employ dentists and dental hygienists

licensed in this state to render dental services to Medicaid

recipients, low-income individuals who have available income

below two hundred percent of the federal poverty level, and

all participants in the SCHIP program, unless such

limitation is contrary to or inconsistent with federal or

state law or regulation.

This subsection shall not apply to:

(1) A hospital licensed under chapter 197 that

provides care and treatment only to children under the age

of eighteen at which a person regulated under this chapter

provides dental care within the scope of his or her license

or registration;

(2) A federally qualified health center as defined in

Section 1905(l) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C.

Section 1396d(l)), or a migrant, community, or health care

for the homeless health center provided for in Section 330

of the Public Health Services Act (42 U.S.C. Section 254b)

at which a person regulated under this chapter provides

dental care within the scope of his or her license or

registration;

(3) A city or county health department organized under

chapter 192 or chapter 205 at which a person regulated under

this chapter provides dental care within the scope of his or

her license or registration;

(4) A social welfare board organized under section

205.770, a city health department operating under a city

charter, or a city-county health department at which a

person regulated under this chapter provides dental care

within the scope of his or her license or registration;

(5) Any entity that has received a permit from the

dental board and does not receive compensation from the

patient or from any third party on the patient's behalf at

which a person regulated under this chapter provides dental

care within the scope of his or her license or registration;

or

(6) Any hospital nonprofit corporation exempt from

taxation under Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue

Code, as amended, that engages in its operations and

provides dental services at facilities owned by a city,

county, or other political subdivision of the state, or any

entity contracted with the state to provide care in a

correctional center, as such term is defined in section

217.010, at which a person regulated under this chapter

provides dental care within the scope of his or her license

or registration.

If any of the entities exempted from the requirements of

this subsection are unable to provide services to a patient

due to the lack of a qualified provider and a referral to

another entity is made, the exemption shall extend to the

person or entity that subsequently provides services to the

patient.

4. No unincorporated organization shall practice

dentistry as defined in section 332.071 unless such

organization is exempt from federal taxation under Section

501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended,

and provides dental treatment without compensation from the

patient or any third party on their behalf as a part of a

broader program of social services including food

distribution.

organizations under this subsection from employing any

person regulated by this chapter.

Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit

5. A dentist shall not enter into a contract that

allows a person who is not a dentist to influence or

interfere with the exercise of the dentist's independent

professional judgment.

6. A not-for-profit corporation organized under the

provisions of chapter 355 and qualifying as an organization

under 26 U.S.C. Section 501(c)(3), an unincorporated

organization operating pursuant to subsection 4 of this

section, or any other person should not direct or interfere

or attempt to direct or interfere with a licensed dentist's

professional judgment and competent practice of dentistry.

Nothing in this subsection shall be so construed as to make

it unlawful for not-for-profit organizations to enforce

employment contracts, corporate policy and procedure

manuals, or quality improvement or assurance requirements.

7. All entities defined in subsection 3 of this

section and those exempted under subsection 4 of this

section shall apply for a permit to employ dentists and

dental hygienists licensed in this state to render dental

services, and the entity shall apply for the permit in

writing on forms provided by the Missouri dental board.

board shall not charge a fee of any kind for the issuance or

renewal of such permit.

shall not apply to a federally qualified health center as

defined in Section 1905(l) of the Social Security Act (42

U.S.C. Section 1396d(l)).

The

The provisions of this subsection

8. Any entity that obtains a permit to render dental

services in this state is subject to discipline pursuant to

section 332.321.

entity has committed an act or is engaging in a course of

conduct that would be grounds for disciplinary action, the

board may file a complaint before the administrative hearing

commission. The board may refuse to issue or renew the

permit of any entity for one or any combination of causes

stated in subsection 2 of section 332.321.

notify the applicant in writing of the reasons for the

refusal and shall advise the applicant of his or her right

to file a complaint with the administrative hearing

commission as provided by chapter 621.

If the board concludes that the person or

The board shall

9. A federally qualified health center as defined in

Section 1905(l) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C.

Section 1396d(l)) shall register with the board.

information provided to the board as part of the

registration shall include the name of the health center,

the nonprofit status of the health center, sites where

dental services will be provided, and the names of all

persons employed by, or contracting with, the health center

who are required to hold a license pursuant to this

chapter. The registration shall be renewed every twenty-

four months. The board shall not charge a fee of any kind

for the issuance or renewal of the registration.

registration of the health center shall not be subject to

discipline pursuant to section 332.321.

subsection shall prohibit disciplinary action against a

licensee of this chapter who is employed by, or contracts

with, such health center for the actions of the licensee in

connection with such employment or contract.

The

The

Nothing in this

10. The board may promulgate rules and regulations to

ensure not-for-profit corporations are rendering care to the

patient populations as set forth herein, including

requirements for covered not-for-profit corporations to

report patient census data to the board.

this subsection shall not apply to a federally qualified

health center as defined in Section 1905(l) of the Social

Security Act (42 U.S.C. Section 1396d(l)).

The provisions of

11. All not-for-profit corporations organized or

operated pursuant to the provisions of chapter 355 and

qualifying as an organization under 26 U.S.C. Section

501(c)(3), or the requirements relating to migrant,

community, or health care for the homeless health centers

provided in Section 330 of the Public Health Service Act (42

U.S.C. Section 254b) and federally qualified health centers

as defined in Section 1905(l) (42 U.S.C. Section 1396d(l))

of the Social Security Act, that employ persons who practice

dentistry or dental hygiene in this state shall do so in

accordance with the relevant laws of this state except to

the extent that such laws are contrary to, or inconsistent

with, federal statute or regulation.

334.108.

1. Prior to prescribing any drug, controlled

substance, or other treatment through telemedicine, as

defined in section 191.1145, or the internet, a physician

shall establish a valid physician-patient relationship as

described in section 191.1146.

include:

This relationship shall

(1) Obtaining a reliable medical history and, if

required to meet the standard of care, performing a physical

examination of the patient, adequate to establish the

diagnosis for which the drug is being prescribed and to

identify underlying conditions or contraindications to the

treatment recommended or provided;

(2) Having sufficient [dialogue] exchange with the

patient regarding treatment options and the risks and

benefits of treatment or treatments;

(3) If appropriate, following up with the patient to
assess the therapeutic outcome;
(4) Maintaining a contemporaneous medical record that

is readily available to the patient and, subject to the

patient's consent, to the patient's other health care

professionals; and

(5) Maintaining the electronic prescription

information as part of the patient's medical record.

2. The requirements of subsection 1 of this section

may be satisfied by the prescribing physician's designee

when treatment is provided in:

(1) A hospital as defined in section 197.020;

(2) A hospice program as defined in section 197.250;

(3) Home health services provided by a home health

agency as defined in section 197.400;
(4) Accordance with a collaborative practice agreement
as [defined] described in section 334.104;
(5) Conjunction with a physician assistant licensed
pursuant to section 334.738;
(6) Conjunction with an assistant physician licensed
under section 334.036;

(7) Consultation with another physician who has an

ongoing physician-patient relationship with the patient, and

who has agreed to supervise the patient's treatment,

including use of any prescribed medications; or

(8) On-call or cross-coverage situations.

3. No health care provider, as defined in section

376.1350, shall prescribe any drug, controlled substance, or

other treatment to a patient based solely on an evaluation

[over the telephone] through telemedicine; except that, a

physician or such physician's on-call designee, or an

advanced practice registered nurse, a physician assistant,

or an assistant physician in a collaborative practice

arrangement with such physician, may prescribe any drug,

controlled substance, or other treatment that is within his

or her scope of practice to a patient based solely on a

[telephone] telemedicine evaluation if a previously

established and ongoing physician-patient relationship

exists between such physician and the patient being treated.

4. No health care provider shall prescribe any drug,

controlled substance, or other treatment to a patient [based

solely on an internet request or an internet questionnaire]

in the absence of a proper provider-patient relationship, as

described in section 191.1146.

5.

Medical records of any drug, controlled substance,

or other treatment prescribed through telemedicine, as

defined in section 191.1145, shall be collected, stored, and

maintained in accordance with the Health Insurance

Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, which allows for

the sharing of protected health information for continuity

of care between health care providers for treatment,

payment, and health care operations.

335.081.

So long as the person involved does not

represent or hold himself or herself out as a nurse licensed

to practice in this state, no provision of sections 335.011

to 335.096 shall be construed as prohibiting:

(1) The practice of any profession for which a license

is required and issued pursuant to the laws of this state by

a person duly licensed to practice that profession;

(2) The services rendered by technicians, nurses'

aides or their equivalent trained and employed in public or

private hospitals and licensed long-term care facilities

except the services rendered in licensed long-term care

facilities shall be limited to administering medication,

excluding injectable medications other than:

(a) Insulin;

(b)

Subcutaneous injectable medications to treat

diabetes as ordered by an individual legally authorized to

prescribe such medications; and

(c)

Epinephrine delivery devices ordered for stock

supply in accordance with section 196.990 or prescribed for

a resident's individual use by an individual legally

authorized to prescribe such epinephrine delivery devices.

Expected epinephrine delivery device users shall receive

training set forth in section 196.990.

paragraph, the term "epinephrine delivery device" means a

single-use device used for the delivery of a premeasured

dose of epinephrine into the human body;

As used in this

(3) The providing of nursing care by friends or

members of the family of the person receiving such care;

(4) The incidental care of the sick, aged, or infirm

by domestic servants or persons primarily employed as

housekeepers;

(5) The furnishing of nursing assistance in the case
of an emergency situation;
(6) The practice of nursing under proper supervision:

(a) As a part of the course of study by students

enrolled in approved schools of professional nursing or in

schools of practical nursing;

(b) By graduates of accredited nursing programs

pending the results of the first licensing examination or

ninety days after graduation, whichever first occurs;

(c) A graduate nurse who is prevented from attending

the first licensing examination following graduation by

reason of active duty in the military may practice as a

graduate nurse pending the results of the first licensing

examination scheduled by the board following the release of

such graduate nurse from active military duty or pending the

results of the first licensing examination taken by the

graduate nurse while involved in active military service

whichever comes first;

(7) The practice of nursing in this state by any

legally qualified nurse duly licensed to practice in another

state whose engagement requires such nurse to accompany and

care for a patient temporarily residing in this state for a

period not to exceed six months;

(8) The practice of any legally qualified nurse who is

employed by the government of the United States or any

bureau, division or agency thereof, while in the discharge

of his or her official duties or to the practice of any

legally qualified nurse serving in the Armed Forces of the

United States while stationed within this state;

(9) Nonmedical nursing care of the sick with or

without compensation when done in connection with the

practice of the religious tenets of any church by adherents

thereof, as long as they do not engage in the practice of

nursing as defined in sections 335.011 to 335.096;

(10) The practice of any legally qualified and

licensed nurse of another state, territory, or foreign

country whose responsibilities include transporting patients

into, out of, or through this state while actively engaged

in patient transport that does not exceed forty-eight hours

in this state.

338.010.

(1) The interpretation, implementation, and evaluation

1. The "practice of pharmacy" includes:

of medical prescription orders, including any legend drugs

under 21 U.S.C. Section 353, and the receipt, transmission,

or handling of such orders or facilitating the dispensing of

such orders;

(2) The designing, initiating, implementing, and

monitoring of a medication therapeutic plan in accordance

with the provisions of this section;

(3) The compounding, dispensing, labeling, and

administration of drugs and devices pursuant to medical

prescription orders;

(4) The ordering and administration of vaccines

approved or authorized by the U.S. Food and Drug

Administration, excluding vaccines for cholera, monkeypox,

Japanese encephalitis, typhoid, rabies, yellow fever, tick-

borne encephalitis, anthrax, tuberculosis, dengue, Hib,

polio, rotavirus, smallpox, chikungunya, and any vaccine

approved after January 1, [2023] 2026, to persons at least

seven years of age or the age recommended by the Centers for

Disease Control and Prevention, whichever is older, pursuant

to joint promulgation of rules established by the board of

pharmacy and the state board of registration for the healing

arts unless rules are established under a state of emergency

as described in section 44.100;

(5) The participation in drug selection according to
state law and participation in drug utilization reviews;
(6) The proper and safe storage of drugs and devices
and the maintenance of proper records thereof;
(7) Consultation with patients and other health care

practitioners, and veterinarians and their clients about

legend drugs, about the safe and effective use of drugs and

devices;

(8) The prescribing and dispensing of any nicotine
replacement therapy product under section 338.665;
(9) The dispensing of HIV postexposure prophylaxis
pursuant to section 338.730; and
(10) The offering or performing of those acts,

services, operations, or transactions necessary in the

conduct, operation, management and control of a pharmacy.

2. No person shall engage in the practice of pharmacy

unless he or she is licensed under the provisions of this

chapter.

3. This chapter shall not be construed to prohibit the

use of auxiliary personnel under the direct supervision of a

pharmacist from assisting the pharmacist in any of his or

her duties. This assistance in no way is intended to

relieve the pharmacist from his or her responsibilities for

compliance with this chapter and he or she will be

responsible for the actions of the auxiliary personnel

acting in his or her assistance.

4. This chapter shall not be construed to prohibit or

interfere with any legally registered practitioner of

medicine, dentistry, or podiatry, or veterinary medicine

only for use in animals, or the practice of optometry in

accordance with and as provided in sections 195.070 and

336.220 in the compounding, administering, prescribing, or

dispensing of his or her own prescriptions.

5. A pharmacist with a certificate of medication

therapeutic plan authority may provide medication therapy

services pursuant to a written protocol from a physician

licensed under chapter 334 to patients who have established

a physician-patient relationship, as described in

subdivision (1) of subsection 1 of section 191.1146, with

the protocol physician.

this section shall come only from the physician and shall

not come from a nurse engaged in a collaborative practice

arrangement under section 334.104, or from a physician

assistant engaged in a collaborative practice arrangement

under section 334.735.

The written protocol authorized by

6. Nothing in this section shall be construed as to

prevent any person, firm or corporation from owning a

pharmacy regulated by sections 338.210 to 338.315, provided

that a licensed pharmacist is in charge of such pharmacy.

7. Nothing in this section shall be construed to apply

to or interfere with the sale of nonprescription drugs and

the ordinary household remedies and such drugs or medicines

as are normally sold by those engaged in the sale of general

merchandise.

8. No health carrier as defined in chapter 376 shall

require any physician with which they contract to enter into

a written protocol with a pharmacist for medication

therapeutic services.

9. This section shall not be construed to allow a

pharmacist to diagnose or independently prescribe

pharmaceuticals.

10. The state board of registration for the healing
arts, under section 334.125, and the state board of

pharmacy, under section 338.140, shall jointly promulgate

rules regulating the use of protocols for medication therapy

services. Such rules shall require protocols to include

provisions allowing for timely communication between the

pharmacist and the protocol physician or similar body

authorized by this section, and any other patient protection

provisions deemed appropriate by both boards.

take effect, such rules shall be approved by a majority vote

of a quorum of each board.

promulgate rules regulating the use of protocols for

medication therapy services.

as that term is defined in section 536.010, that is created

under the authority delegated in this section shall become

effective only if it complies with and is subject to all of

the provisions of chapter 536 and, if applicable, section

536.028. This section and chapter 536 are nonseverable and

if any of the powers vested with the general assembly

pursuant to chapter 536 to review, to delay the effective

date, or to disapprove and annul a rule are subsequently

held unconstitutional, then the grant of rulemaking

authority and any rule proposed or adopted after August 28,

2007, shall be invalid and void.

In order to

Neither board shall separately
Any rule or portion of a rule,

11. The state board of pharmacy may grant a

certificate of medication therapeutic plan authority to a

licensed pharmacist who submits proof of successful

completion of a board-approved course of academic clinical

study beyond a bachelor of science in pharmacy, including

but not limited to clinical assessment skills, from a

nationally accredited college or university, or a

certification of equivalence issued by a nationally

recognized professional organization and approved by the

board of pharmacy.

12. Any pharmacist who has received a certificate of

medication therapeutic plan authority may engage in the

designing, initiating, implementing, and monitoring of a

medication therapeutic plan as defined by a written protocol

from a physician that may be specific to each patient for

care by a pharmacist.

13. Nothing in this section shall be construed to

allow a pharmacist to make a therapeutic substitution of a

pharmaceutical prescribed by a physician unless authorized

by the written protocol or the physician's prescription

order.

14. "Veterinarian", "doctor of veterinary medicine",

"practitioner of veterinary medicine", "DVM", "VMD", "BVSe",

"BVMS", "BSe (Vet Science)", "VMB", "MRCVS", or an

equivalent title means a person who has received a doctor's

degree in veterinary medicine from an accredited school of

veterinary medicine or holds an Educational Commission for

Foreign Veterinary Graduates (EDFVG) certificate issued by

the American Veterinary Medical Association (AVMA).

15. In addition to other requirements established by

the joint promulgation of rules by the board of pharmacy and

the state board of registration for the healing arts:

(1) A pharmacist shall administer vaccines by protocol

in accordance with treatment guidelines established by the

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC);

(2) A pharmacist who is administering a vaccine shall

request a patient to remain in the pharmacy a safe amount of

time after administering the vaccine to observe any adverse

reactions. Such pharmacist shall have adopted emergency

treatment protocols.

16. In addition to other requirements by the board, a

pharmacist shall receive additional training as required by

the board and evidenced by receiving a certificate from the

board upon completion, and shall display the certification

in his or her pharmacy where vaccines are delivered.

17. A pharmacist shall inform the patient that the

administration of a vaccine will be entered into the

ShowMeVax system, as administered by the department of

health and senior services.

inclusion of such information in the system by signing a

form provided by the pharmacist.

that he or she does not want such information entered into

the ShowMeVax system, the pharmacist shall provide a written

report within fourteen days of administration of a vaccine

to the patient's health care provider, if provided by the

patient, containing:

The patient shall attest to the
If the patient indicates

(1) The identity of the patient;

(2) The identity of the vaccine or vaccines

administered;

(3) The route of administration;

(4) The anatomic site of the administration;

(5) The dose administered; and

(6) The date of administration.

18. A pharmacist licensed under this chapter may order

and administer vaccines approved or authorized by the U.S.

Food and Drug Administration to address a public health

need, as lawfully authorized by the state or federal

government, or a department or agency thereof, during a

state or federally declared public health emergency.

338.333.

1. Except as otherwise provided by the board

of pharmacy by rule in the event of an emergency or to

alleviate a supply shortage, no person or distribution

outlet shall act as a wholesale drug distributor, pharmacy

distributor, drug outsourcer, or third-party logistics

provider without first obtaining license to do so from the

Missouri board of pharmacy and paying the required fee.

board may grant temporary licenses when the wholesale drug

distributor, pharmacy distributor, drug outsourcer, or third-

party logistics provider first applies for a license to

operate within the state.

valid until such time as the board shall find that the

applicant meets or fails to meet the requirements for

regular licensure.

for a wholesale drug distributor, pharmacy distributor, drug

outsourcer, or third-party logistics provider to operate

unless the same shall be operated in a manner prescribed by

law and according to the rules and regulations promulgated

by the board of pharmacy with respect thereto.

licenses shall be required for each distribution site owned

or operated by a wholesale drug distributor, pharmacy

distributor, drug outsourcer, or third-party logistics

provider, unless such drug distributor, pharmacy

distributor, drug outsourcer, or third-party logistics

provider meets the requirements of section 338.335.

The

Temporary licenses shall remain

No license shall be issued or renewed

Separate

2. An agent or employee of any licensed or registered

wholesale drug distributor, pharmacy distributor, drug

outsourcer, or third-party logistics provider need not seek

licensure under this section and may lawfully possess

pharmaceutical drugs, if the agent or employee is acting in

the usual course of his or her business or employment.

3. The board may permit out-of-state wholesale drug

distributors, drug outsourcers, third-party logistics

[provider] providers, or out-of-state pharmacy distributors

to be licensed as required by sections 338.210 to 338.370 on

the basis of reciprocity to the extent that the entity both:

(1) Possesses a valid license granted by another state

pursuant to legal standards comparable to those which must

be met by a wholesale drug distributor, pharmacy

distributor, drug [outsourcers] outsourcer, or third-party

logistics provider of this state as prerequisites for

obtaining a license under the laws of this state.

state license is not issued by their resident state, out-of-

state wholesale drug distributors and third-party logistics

providers with a current and valid drug distributor

accreditation from the National Association of Boards of

Pharmacy or its successor may be eligible for licensure as

provided by the board by rule; and

If a

(2) Distributes into Missouri from a state which would

extend reciprocal treatment under its own laws to a

wholesale drug distributor, pharmacy distributor, drug

outsourcers, or third-party logistics provider of this state.

338.710.

1. There is hereby created in the Missouri

board of pharmacy the "RX Cares for Missouri Program".

goal of the program shall be to promote medication safety

and to prevent prescription drug abuse, misuse, and

diversion in Missouri.

The

2. The board, in consultation with the department,

shall be authorized to expend, allocate, or award funds

appropriated to the board to private or public entities to

develop or provide programs or education to promote

medication safety or to suppress or prevent prescription

drug abuse, misuse, and diversion in the state of Missouri.

In no case shall the authorization include, nor the funds be

expended for, any state prescription drug monitoring program

including, but not limited to, such as are defined in 38 CFR

1.515. Funds disbursed to a state agency under this section

may enhance, but shall not supplant, funds otherwise

appropriated to such state agency.

3. The board shall be the administrative agency

responsible for implementing the program in consultation

with the department.

into interagency agreements between themselves to allow the

department to assist in the management or operation of the

program. The board may award funds directly to the

department to implement, manage, develop, or provide

programs or education pursuant to the program.

The board and the department may enter

4. After a full year of program operation, the board

shall prepare and submit an evaluation report to the

governor and the general assembly describing the operation

of the program and the funds allocated.

authorized by the general assembly, the program shall expire

on August 28, 2026.]

376.1245.

terms mean:

(1)

1.

[Unless otherwise

As used in this section, the following

"Anesthesia time", the period during which an

anesthesia practitioner is present with the patient,

starting when the anesthesia practitioner begins to prepare

the patient for anesthesia services in the operating room or

an equivalent area and ending when the anesthesia

practitioner is no longer furnishing anesthesia services to

the patient because the patient may be placed safely under

postoperative or postanesthesia care.

time" includes, if counted by the anesthesia practitioner,

blocks of time around an interruption in anesthesia time

provided the anesthesia practitioner is furnishing

continuous anesthesia care within the time periods around

the interruption;

The term "anesthesia

(2)

"Anesthesia time units", time units recognized

with appropriate time intervals that do not exceed fifteen

minutes in length for each interval and that, taken

together, represent the total anesthesia time for a

particular anesthesia service;

(3)

"Excepted benefit plan", the same meaning given to

the term in section 376.998;
(4)

"Health benefit plan", the same meaning given to

the term in section 376.1350.

plan" shall also include MO HealthNet, the children's health

insurance program authorized under chapter 208, the Missouri

consolidated health care plan established under chapter 103,

and any other state-sponsored health insurance program;

(5)

The term "health benefit

"Health carrier", the same meaning given to the

term in section 376.1350.

also include the MO HealthNet division and any Medicaid

managed care organization as defined in section 208.431;

(6)

The term "health carrier" shall

"Payment of anesthesia services", an amount paid

for anesthesia services:
(a)

Determined by using prevailing medical coding and

billing standards in the professional medical billing

community, such as the Current Procedural Terminology code

book published by the American Medical Association, the

Medicare Claims Processing Manual, or guidance from

nationally recognized anesthesia organizations; and

(b)

Calculated as the product obtained by multiplying

the following together:
a.

The sum of the base units for the appropriate

medical code plus anesthesia time units; and
b.

An anesthesia conversion factor that is defined in

the individual contract between the health carrier or health

benefit plan and the anesthesia practitioner or group.

2.

No health carrier or health benefit plan shall

establish, implement, or enforce any policy, practice, or

procedure that imposes a time limit for the payment of

anesthesia services provided during a medical or surgical

procedure.

3.

No health carrier or health benefit plan shall

establish, implement, or enforce any policy, practice, or

procedure that restricts or excludes all anesthesia time in

calculating the payment of anesthesia services.

4.

Excepted benefit plans shall be subject to the

requirements of this section.
376.1280.

terms mean:

(1)

1.

As used in this section, the following

"Acute pain", pain that results from disease,

accidental or intentional trauma, or other causes, that a

health care provider reasonably expects to last thirty days

or fewer;

(2)

"Enrollee", the same meaning given to the term in

section 376.1350;
(3)

"Health benefit plan", the same meaning given to

the term in section 376.1350;
(4)

"Health care professional", the same meaning given

to the term in section 376.1350.
2.

Notwithstanding any provision of law to the

contrary, when a licensed health care professional acting

within the scope of his or her license prescribes a

nonopioid medication for the treatment of acute pain to a

patient, it shall be unlawful for a health benefit plan to:

(1)

Deny coverage of the nonopioid prescription drug

in favor of an opioid prescription drug;

(2)

Require the patient to try an opioid prescription

drug before providing coverage of the nonopioid prescription

drug; or

(3)

Require a higher level of cost-sharing for the

nonopioid prescription drug than for an opioid prescription

drug.

3.

This section shall apply to health benefit plans

delivered, issued for delivery, continued, or renewed on or

after January 1, 2027.

579.060.

1. A person commits the offense of unlawful

sale, distribution, or purchase of over-the-counter

methamphetamine precursor drugs if he or she knowingly:

(1) Sells, distributes, dispenses, or otherwise

provides any number of packages of any drug product

containing detectable amounts of ephedrine,

phenylpropanolamine, or pseudoephedrine, or any of their

salts, optical isomers, or salts of optical isomers, in a

total amount greater than seven and two-tenths grams to the

same individual within a thirty-day period, unless the

amount is dispensed, sold, or distributed pursuant to a

valid prescription; or

(2) Purchases, receives, or otherwise acquires within

a thirty-day period any number of packages of any drug

product containing any detectable amount of ephedrine,

phenylpropanolamine, or pseudoephedrine, or any of their

salts or optical isomers, or salts of optical isomers in a

total amount greater than seven and two-tenths grams,

without regard to the number of transactions, unless the

amount is purchased, received, or acquired pursuant to a

valid prescription; or

(3)

Purchases, receives, or otherwise acquires within

a twenty-four-hour period any number of packages of any drug

product containing any detectable amount of ephedrine,

phenylpropanolamine, or pseudoephedrine, or any of their

salts or optical isomers, or salts of optical isomers in a

total amount greater than three and six-tenths grams,

without regard to the number of transactions, unless the

amount is purchased, received, or acquired pursuant to a

valid prescription; or

(4) Sells, distributes, dispenses, or otherwise

provides any number of packages of any drug product

containing detectable amounts of ephedrine,

phenylpropanolamine, or pseudoephedrine, or any of their

salts, optical isomers, or salts of optical isomers, in a

total amount greater than [forty-three] sixty-one and two-

tenths grams to the same individual within a twelve-month

period, unless the amount is dispensed, sold, or distributed

pursuant to a valid prescription; or

(5) Purchases, receives, or otherwise acquires within

a twelve-month period any number of packages of any drug

product containing any detectable amount of ephedrine,

phenylpropanolamine, or pseudoephedrine, or any of their

salts or optical isomers, or salts of optical isomers in a

total amount greater than [forty-three] sixty-one and two-

tenths grams, without regard to the number of transactions,

unless the amount is purchased, received, or acquired

pursuant to a valid prescription; or

(6) Dispenses or offers drug products that are not

excluded from Schedule V in subsection 17 or 18 of section

195.017 and that contain detectable amounts of ephedrine,

phenylpropanolamine, or pseudoephedrine, or any of their

salts, optical isomers, or salts of optical isomers, without

ensuring that such products are located behind a pharmacy

counter where the public is not permitted and that such

products are dispensed by a registered pharmacist or

pharmacy technician under subsection 11 of section 195.017;

or

(7) Holds a retail sales license issued under chapter

and knowingly sells or dispenses packages that do not

conform to the packaging requirements of section 195.418.

2. A pharmacist, intern pharmacist, or registered

pharmacy technician commits the offense of unlawful sale,

distribution, or purchase of over-the-counter

methamphetamine precursor drugs if he or she knowingly:

(1) Sells, distributes, dispenses, or otherwise

provides any number of packages of any drug product

containing detectable amounts of ephedrine,

phenylpropanolamine, or pseudoephedrine, or any of their

salts or optical isomers, or salts of optical isomers, in a

total amount greater than three and six-tenth grams to the

same individual within a twenty-four hour period, unless the

amount is dispensed, sold, or distributed pursuant to a

valid prescription; or

(2) Fails to submit information under subsection 13 of

section 195.017 and subsection 6 of section 195.417 about

the sales of any compound, mixture, or preparation of

products containing detectable amounts of ephedrine,

phenylpropanolamine, or pseudoephedrine, or any of their

salts, optical isomers, or salts of optical isomers, in

accordance with transmission methods and frequency

established by the department of health and senior services;

or

(3) Fails to implement and maintain an electronic log,

as required by subsection 12 of section 195.017, of each

transaction involving any detectable quantity of

pseudoephedrine, its salts, isomers, or salts of optical

isomers or ephedrine, its salts, optical isomers, or salts

of optical isomers; or

(4) Sells, distributes, dispenses or otherwise

provides to an individual under eighteen years of age

without a valid prescription any number of packages of any

drug product containing any detectable quantity of

pseudoephedrine, its salts, isomers, or salts of optical

isomers, or ephedrine, its salts or optical isomers, or

salts of optical isomers.

3. Any person who violates the packaging requirements

of section 195.418 and is considered the general owner or

operator of the outlet where ephedrine, pseudoephedrine, or

phenylpropanolamine products are available for sale shall

not be penalized if he or she documents that an employee

training program was in place to provide the employee who

made the unlawful retail sale with information on the state

and federal regulations regarding ephedrine,

pseudoephedrine, or phenylpropanolamine.

4. A manufacturer commits the offense of unlawful

sale, distribution, or purchase of over-the-counter

methamphetamine precursor drugs if he or she knowingly fails

to pay the fees required under subsection 7 of section

195.417.

5. The offense of unlawful sale, distribution, or

purchase of over-the-counter methamphetamine precursor drugs

is a class A misdemeanor.

✓
