2026SESSION
06/08
1748-FN
HOUSEBILL
ANACT establishing the New Hampshire energy efficiency and resource development
authority.
COMMITTEE: Science,TechnologyandEnergy
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
ANALYSIS
ThisbillestablishestheNewHampshireenergyefficiencyandresourcedevelopmentauthority.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
Explanation: Matteraddedtocurrentlawappearsinbolditalics.
Matterremovedfromcurrentlawappears[inbracketsandstruckthrough.]
Matterwhichiseither(a)allnewor(b)repealedandreenactedappearsinregulartype.

06/08
STATEOFNEWHAMPSHIRE
IntheYearofOurLordTwoThousandTwenty-Six
ANACT establishing the New Hampshire energy efficiency and resource development
authority.
BeitEnactedbytheSenateandHouseofRepresentativesinGeneralCourtconvened:
1 New Chapter; New Hampshire Energy Efficiency and Resource Development Authority.
AmendRSAbyinsertingafterchapter362-Ithefollowingnewchapter:
CHAPTER362-J
NEWHAMPSHIREENERGYEFFICIENCYANDRESOURCEDEVELOPMENTAUTHORITY
362-J:1 Purpose. The New Hampshire energy efficiency and resource development authority is
established for the purposes of developing, planning, coordinating, and implementing energy
efficiency programs and to provide for the preservation, establishment, and redevelopment of
nuclearpowergenerationandrelatedindustriesinthestateto:
I. Provide uniform, integrated planning, program design, and administration of energy
efficiency programs pursuant to this chapter and any other provisions of law administered by the
authority;
II. Reduce energy costs, improve economic security, and benefit the state and local
economies. The authority shall administer energy efficiency programs consistent with applicable
requirements of this chapter and other law to help individuals and businesses meet their energy
needsatthelowestcostandgenerallytoimprovetheeconomicsecurityofthestateby:
(a) Reducing the cost of energy to residents by reducing the amount of energy necessary
forthemtoobtainacomparablelevelofbenefit;
(b) Maximizing the use of energy efficiency measures, including measures that improve
the energy efficiency of energy-using systems, such as heating and cooling systems, and system
upgradestoenergy-efficientsystemsthatrelyonaffordableenergyresources;
(c) Reducingeconomicinsecurityfromtheinefficientuseoffossilandrenewablefuels;
(d) Fostering growth and stability in New Hampshire industries that deliver energy
efficiencyproductsandservices;
(e) Enhancing heating improvements for households through implementation of
efficiency programs, including affordable heating systems that will produce comfort, improve indoor
air quality, reduce energy costs for those households, and reduce the need for future fuel assistance;
and
(f) Simplifying and enhancing consumer access to technical assistance and financial
incentives relating to energy efficiency by merging or coordinating dispersed programs under a
singleadministrativeunitpossessingindependentmanagementandexpertise.

-Page2-
III. Actively promote investment in energy efficiency measures and systems that use energy
resourcesthatreduceoverallenergycostsforconsumersintheservicearea;and
IV. Actively promote investment in and development of nuclear power generation and
relatedindustriesandeducationalprogramswithinthestateto:
(a) Create or preserve educational and employment opportunities in the fields of energy
economics,mathematics,nuclearscience,technology,engineering,andmanufacturing;
(b) Increase social and economic welfare of the state by diversifying non-fossil fuel and
non-greenhousegasemittinggenerationtechnologieswithinthestate;and
(c) Increase the economic welfare of the state by encouraging the development of highly
dependablebaseloadgenerationtechnologiesthatattractdata-drivenindustryandjobs.
362-J:2 Definitions. In this chapter, "authority" shall mean the New Hampshire energy
efficiencyandresourcedevelopmentauthority.
362-J:3 Establishment. There is hereby established the New Hampshire energy efficiency and
resourcedevelopmentauthority, whichshallbeabodycorporateandpoliticalhavingadistinctlegal
existenceseparatefrom thestateand not constitutingadepartment of stategovernment, havingthe
powersandjurisdictionenumeratedinthischapterandsuchotherandadditionalpowersasshallbe
conferred upon it by the legislature. The authority is hereby deemed to be a public instrumentality
,and the exercise by the authority of the powers conferred upon it by the legislature shall be deemed
and held to be the performance of public and essential governmental functions of the state. The
authorityshallbeanonprofitcorporationorganizedunderRSA292.
362-J:4 Board of Directors; Organization. The authority shall be governed by a board of 10
directors.
I. The10directorsshallinclude:
(a) Thecommissionerofthedepartmentofenergyordesignee.
(b) Thechairofthepublicutilitiescommissionordesignee.
(c) Theconsumeradvocateordesignee.
(d) Thecommissionerofthedepartmentofbusinessandeconomicaffairsordesignee.
(e) TheexecutivedirectoroftheNewHampshirebusinessfinanceauthorityordesignee.
(f) Thestatetreasurerordesignee.
(g) Four public members appointed by the governor and confirmed by the executive
council.
II. Appointed members of the board of directors shall serve for 4-year terms. If a vacancy
occurs among the appointed members of the board of directors, a new person shall be appointed,
reviewed, and confirmed for a new 4-year term. A member of the board of directors may be
reappointed.
III. An appointed member of the board of directors may be removed at any time by the
governorandcouncilforinefficiency,neglectofduty,ormalfeasanceinoffice.

-Page3-
IV. Members of the board of directors shall receive no compensation for their services but
shall be reimbursed, or their agency shall be reimbursed, for actual and necessary expenses,
includingtravelexpensesincurredinperformingtheirduties.
V. Upon appointment of the members of the board of directors and annually thereafter, the
members shall elect, from among the members, a chairman and a vice-chairman and shall designate
oremployasecretary-treasurerwhoneednotbeamemberoftheboard.
VI. The secretary-treasurer shall keep a record of the proceedings of the authority and the
board of directors and shall be the custodian of all books, documents, and papers filed with the
board,theminutebooksoftheboard,andtheauthority’sofficialseal.
VII. A majority of the directors shall constitute a quorum; however, no power of the
authority shall be exercised without a majority vote of the full board of directors except that the
board may elect an executive committee of not fewer than 5 directors who, in intervals between
meetings of the board, may transact such business of the authority as a majority of the full board
mayauthorizefromtimetotime.
362-J:5 Administration of the Authority. The authority shall employ an executive director,
legal,financial,andtechnicalexperts,andotherpersonsasitmayrequire.
I. The board shall use a full and competitive search process to select a qualified full-time
executivedirector. Theexecutivedirectorshallserveatthepleasureoftheboard.
II. Thedirector:
(a) Servesasthepresidentoftheauthorityandastheliaisonbetweentheboardandany
state agency, committee of the legislature having jurisdiction over energy matters, the governor’s
office,andtheexecutivecouncil.
(b) Isresponsiblefor:
(1) Establishingtheofficesoftheauthority;
(2) Hiringandorganizingstafffortheauthorityanddeterminingtheirqualifications
andduties;
(3) Managing the authority’s programs, services, staff, contracts, funding and
finances,andperformingotherdutiesastheboardconsidersappropriate,and
(4) May delegate to employees of the authority any powers and duties that the
executivedirectorconsidersproper.
362-J:6 Powers. The authority shall have all the powers and privileges normally accorded a
corporation under RSA Chapter 292 and necessary to protect the interests of energy customers and
the authority and to perform its purposes under this chapter, except that the authority may not
perform any activity prohibited by this chapter or borrow money except as provided in RSA 362-C:8,
VI.
362-J:7 Energy Efficiency Service Area Limited. The authority shall provide energy efficiency
services only to distribution customers of retail electric and natural gas public utilities, as public

-Page4-
utilities are defined in RSA 362:2, and the New Hampshire electric cooperative, except for funding
projects by local governments that have their own municipal utilities to the extent that funds are
allocated to the authority by the department of energy pursuant to RSA 125-O:23, III for that
purpose.
362-J:8 Funding.
I. The authority’s energy efficiency budget shall be funded through the system benefits
chargeestablishedinRSA374-F:3;theenergyefficiencyfundestablishedpursuanttoRSA125-O:23;
revenues available from wholesale energy and ancillary services markets operated by ISO-NE; local
gas distribution adjustment charges, funds granted or subcontracted by state or federal agencies,
interest, and return on investments; and the authority’s resource development budget shall be
fundedthroughloanand bondrevenues, guaranteefund deposits,funds grantedor subcontracted by
state or federal agencies, interest, and return on investment. The authority may apply for and may
receivegrantsfrommunicipal,state,federal,andprivatesourcesiftheboardofdirectorsdetermines
that receipt of those funds is consistent with the purposes of this chapter. The authority shall
deposit and maintain any funds it receives in a banking institution or institutions approved by the
state treasurer for that purpose. Once received by the authority, funds shall not require governor
andexecutivecouncilapprovalforexpenditureexceptasspecificallyprovidedinthischapter.
II. The energy efficiency portions of the system benefits charge and the local distribution
adjustment charge shall be set at the level existing on the date energy efficiency program
management transfers from the utilities to the authority, such date to be determined by the
department of energy. The energy efficiency portion of the system benefits charge and local
distribution adjustment charges shall adjust annually beginning the following January 1 and shall
be calculated using the most recently available 3-year average of the consumer price index (CPI-W)
as published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics of the United States Department of Labor as
determined and verified by thedepartment of energy. Upon noticefrom the department of energy of
a change in the system benefits charge or local distribution adjustment charges, utilities subject to
public utilities commission rate regulation shall submit tariff amendments to the commission
altering solely the system benefits charge and local distribution adjustment charge as described,
which, if accurate, the commission shall permit to go into effect within 30 days without notice or
hearing. Retail electric and natural gas public utilities, as public utilities are defined in RSA 362:2,
and the New Hampshire electric cooperative shall pay over to the authority no less frequently than
monthly the energy efficiency portions of the system benefits charge and local distribution
adjustmentchargecollectedfromtheircustomers.
III. Any funds generated by the sale of energy efficiency resources into ISO-New England
markets, including the forward capacity market by retail electric and natural gas utilities, as public
utilities are defined in RSA 362:2, and the New Hampshire electric cooperative shall be paid over to
theauthorityupontheirreceipt.

-Page5-
IV. The department of energy shall grant to the authorityregional greenhouse gas initiative
auctionfundsreceivedbythestateinaccordancewithRSA125-O:23.
V. Any state entity may grant, subgrant, or subcontract funds to, or contract with, the
authority for the purposes of this chapter and may do so without conducting a competitive
solicitation.
VI. Any gift received by the authority for the purposes of this chapter shall be considered a
gifttothecorporationandnotagifttothestate.
VII. The authority is authorized to accept suchmoneys as may beappropriated from time to
time by the legislature to organize and for carrying out its corporate purpose. The authority shall
repay the state all sums that are appropriated to the authority for organizational purposes in 5
annualinstallments,beginningwiththefifthyearafterthereceiptofsuchfunds.
VIII. The authority shall have the discretion to utilize funds generated or received as it
determineswiththefollowingrestrictions:
(a) No more than 10 percent of funds received annually by the authority may be used to
fundtheauthority’scostsofadministeringtheauthorityanditsprograms.
(b) No less than $400,000 of system benefits charge funds collected annually shall be
usedtopromulgatethebenefitsofenergyefficiency.
(c) No less than 20 percent of system benefits charge and local distribution adjustment
chargefundscollectedannuallyshallbeexpendedonlow-incomeenergyefficiencyprograms.
(d) No less than 15 percent of funds allocated by the department of energy annually
pursuanttoRSA125-O:23,IIIshallbeexpendedonlow-incomeenergyefficiencyprograms.
(e) No less than $2,000,000 per calendar year of funds allocated by the department of
energyannuallypursuanttoRSA125-O:23,IIImaybeexpendedformunicipalandlocalgovernment
energy efficiency projects, including projects by local governments that have their own municipal
utilities.
(f) Any of the funds described in (a)-(f) that remain at the end of the calendar year shall
rolloverandbeaddedtothenewcalendaryearfundaccount.
(g) The revenues received by and due to the authority from any and all sources under
this chapter shall be retained by the authority and shall be used in such manner as may be
determined by the authority consistent with the provisions of this chapter. The authority may
expendsaidfundsinconnectionwithtransactionsandprojectsconsummatedorreasonablyexpected
tobeconsummatedundertheprovisionsofthischapterasitshalldetermineinitssolediscretion. It
is the intent of the legislature that the authority be self-funding and that payment of its operating
expensesshallnotrequirestateappropriationexceptasprovidedinRSA362-C:8,VI.
362-J:9 Exemption from Public Meeting Laws and Administrative Procedure Act; Rulemaking
Authority. The authority shall be exempt from the provisions of RSA Chapter 91-A and RSA
Chapter 541-A but may adopt rules in accordance with its own procedures to facilitate, implement,

-Page6-
andcarryoutthepowers,duties,andpurposesoftheauthorityenumeratedinthischapterand such
otherandadditionalpowersandpurposesasshallbeconferreduponit.
362-J:10 Relation to Other Agencies. The financial and administrative operations of the
authorityshallbeexemptfromtherulesofanydepartment,commission,board,bureau,oragencyof
thestateexcepttotheextentandinthemannerprovidedinthischapter. Unlessastateagencyisa
party, purchases made by and contracts entered into by the authority shall be made or let without
regardtoanyprovisionoflawormanualofproceduresapplicabletotheacceptanceorexpenditureof
statefunds.
362-J:11 GeneralDuties.
I. The authority shall develop and implement electric and natural gas energy efficiency
programstohelpreduceenergycostsforelectricityandnaturalgasconsumersintheserviceareaby
the maximum amount possible. The authority shall establish and, on a schedule determined by the
authority, revise objectives and an overall energy strategy for energy efficiency programs. Programs
implemented by the authority must be consistent with the objectives and an overall strategy
developedbytheauthority,becosteffective,andbeapprovedbytheboard. Theauthorityshallseek
to encourage efficiency in electricity and natural gas use, provide incentives for the development of
new, energy-efficient business activity, and take into account the costs and benefits of energy
efficiency to existing business activity in the service area. The authority shall consider, without
limitation,programsthat:
(a) Increaseconsumerawarenessofcost-effectiveoptionsforconservingenergy;
(b) Create more favorable market conditions for the increased use of energy-efficient
productsandservices;
(c) Promote sustainable economic development in industries that provide energy
efficiencyproductsandservices;
(d) Reduce the price of electricity and natural gas over time for all consumers by
reducing or shifting demand for electricity or balancing load, including by the implementation of
beneficialelectrificationandenergystoragesystems;and
(e) Reduce total energy costs for electricity and natural gas consumers in the service
areabyincreasingtheefficiencywithwhichenergyisconsumed.
II. The authority shall develop quantifiable performance metrics for all energy efficiency
programs it administers, and to which it will hold accountable all recipients of funding and
recipients of funds used to deliver energy and energy efficiency programs administered or funded by
the authority. Such performance metrics may include, but are not limited to, reduced energy
consumption; increased use of alternative energy resources; reduced heating cost; reduced capacity
demand for natural gas, electricity, and fossil fuels; reduced carbon dioxide emissions, program, and
overhead costs and cost-effectiveness, the number of new jobs created by the award of authority

-Page7-
funds;thenumberofenergyefficiencytrainingsorcertificationcoursescompletedandtheamountof
salesgenerated.
III. In cooperation and partnership with the retail electric and gas distribution public
utilities, as public utilities are defined in RSA 362:2 and the New Hampshire electric cooperative,
the authority shall develop and provide information on its programs and other options to promote
energyefficiencytoenergyconsumers.
IV. The authority shall develop, and the board shall vote on, a detailed, triennial plan that
includesthequantifiableperformancemetricsdevelopedunder RSA362-C:11,II. Thetriennial plan
must provide integrated planning, program design, and implementation strategies for all energy
efficiency administered by the authority. The triennial plan must include provisions for the
application of appropriate program funds to support workforce development efforts that are
consistent with and promote the purposes of the authority. The plan must take into consideration
the comprehensive state energy strategy developed pursuant to RSA 12-P:7-a. The plan must
include, but is not limited to, efficiency program budget allocations, objectives, targets, performance
metrics, program designs, program implementation strategies, timelines, and other relevant
information.
(a) The triennial plan must be developed by the authority in consultation with entities
and agencies engaged in delivering efficiency programs in the service area. The triennial plan must
target the maximum achievable cost-effective energy efficiency savings achievable given available
funds and the percentage funding necessary to be given to low-income customers to enable them to
obtain the benefits of energy efficiency, the costs and benefits of such programs, and the basis and
supportforsuchidentifiedcostsandbenefits.
(1) Retail electric and natural gas public utilities, as public utilities are defined in
RSA 362:2 and the New Hampshire electric cooperative shall furnish data to the authority that the
authority requests under this section to develop and implement the triennial plan or conduct the
evaluation of all cost-effective potential for electrical and natural gas energy efficiency savings
subject to such confidential treatment as a utility may request and the board determines
appropriate. The costs of providing the data are deemed reasonable and prudent expenses of
utilitiesthatarerateregulatedbythepublicutilitiescommissionandarerecoverableinrates.
(2) Unless prohibited by federal law, the department of energy and the department
of health and human services shall furnish to the authority data pertaining to the identity, location,
and contact information, but not including income or asset information, of households that qualify
for low-income programs, as determined necessary by the authority to develop and implement the
triennial plan and to evaluate program effectiveness. Data received pursuant to this subparagraph
isdeemedconfidential.
(b) Indevelopingthetriennialplan,thestaffoftheauthorityshallconsulttheboardand
providetheopportunityfortheboardtoprovideinputondraftsoftheplan.

-Page8-
(c) In developing the triennial plan, the authority shall provide the joint standing
committees of the legislature having jurisdiction over energy matters an opportunity to provide
inputontheplan,whichmayoccuratthesametimetheauthorityconsultswithotherentitiesinthe
developmentoftheplan.
(d) The board shall review and approve the triennial plan by affirmative vote of a
majority of a quorum of the board members upon a finding that the plan is consistent with the
statutory authority for each source of funds that will be used to implement the plan, advances
energy efficiency, reflects the best practices of program administration, and is consistent with the
provisions of this section. The board may approve the entire plan or approve portions of the plan
andrejectothers.
(e) The board shall determine the period to be covered by the triennial plan except that
the period of the plan may not interfere with the delivery of any existing contracts to provide energy
efficiency services that were previously procured pursuant to efficiency programs administered by
thepublicutilitiescommission.
(f) It is an objective of the triennial plan to design, coordinate, and integrate sustained
energy efficiency programs that are available to all electricity and gas consumers within the service
areaoftheauthority. Theplanmustsetforththecostsandbenefitsoftheauthority’sprogramsthat
advancethepurposeofthischapter.
(g) Within 90days of completionof the annual report under RSA362-J:15, the executive
director shall submit to the board an annual update plan describing any significant changes to the
triennial plan related to program budget allocations, goals, targets, performance metrics, program
designs, implementation strategies, timelines, and other relevant information for the year ahead for
all funds administered and managed by the authority. The executive director or any contractor,
grantee, or agency delivering programs may not execute any significant changes until the changes
areapprovedbytheboard.
(h) Approved triennial annual update plans must be provided to the department of
energy, public utilities commission, and the joint standing committees of the Legislature having
jurisdictionoverenergymatters.
V. The authority shall promote the implementation of generation III-plus and generation IV
nuclear generation in the state, including but not limited to public outreach, workforce education
programming, feasibility studies, component manufacturing, assembly, and construction and
operation.
362-J:12 Implementation of Energy Efficiency Programs. The authority may arrange the
delivery of energy efficiency programs by contracting with service providers. The authority shall
selectserviceprovidersinaccordancewiththissection.
I. Theauthorityshallselectserviceprovidersthroughacompetitivebiddingprocess.

-Page9-
II. To the extent practicable, the authority shall encourage the development of resources,
infrastructure,andskillswithinthestatebygivingpreferencetoin-stateserviceproviders.
III. Notwithstanding RSA 362-C:12, I, the authority may select a service provider for one or
more energy efficiency programs, including low-income programs, without employing a competitive
biddingprocessiftheauthoritydeterminesthattheselectionoftheserviceproviderwillpromotethe
efficientandeffectivedeliveryofenergyefficiencyprogramsandisconsistentwiththeobjectivesand
overallstrategyoftheenergyefficiencyprograms.
362-J:13 Independent Analysis of Energy Efficiency Programs. The authority shall arrange for
an independent evaluation of each major energy efficiency program implemented under this section.
Each major program must be evaluated at least once every 5 years. The evaluation must include an
accounting audit of the program and an evaluation of the program’s effectiveness in meeting the
goalsof this chapter. Theevaluations must beconducted byacompetent professional withexpertise
in energy efficiency matters, including the management of cost-effective energy efficiency programs.
The authority shall include the results of all evaluations conducted under this section in the annual
report submitted pursuant to RSA 362-C:15. For purposes of this section, “major program” means a
programwithanannualbudgetofmorethan$500,000.
362-J:14 Financial Audits. The authority shall cause its accounts to be audited by an
independent certified public accountant selected by the authority at least annually. The authority
shall submit acopy of the most recent audit as part of the annual report submitted pursuant to RSA
362-C:15.
362-J:15 ReportingRequirements. Theauthorityshallprovideaboard-approvedreportbyApril
1 of each year to the governor, department of energy, public utilities commission, the joint standing
committees of the legislature having jurisdiction over energy matters, and the state treasurer. The
reportmustinclude:
I. A description of actions taken by the authority pursuant to this chapter, including
descriptions of all energy efficiency programs and resource development initiatives implemented
during the prior 12 months and all programs and initiatives that the authority plans to implement
duringthenext12months.
II. A description of how the authority determines the cost-effectiveness of each energy
efficiency program and its assessment of the cost-effectiveness of energy efficiency programs
implementedduringtheprior12months.
III. Anaccountingof:
(a) Fundsreceivedbysourceduringtheprior12months;
(b) Fundsexpendedonadministrationduringtheprior12months;
(c) Funds expended by energy efficiency programs and resource development initiatives
duringtheprior12months;
(d) Aprojectionoffundstobereceivedandfundstobeexpendedforthenext12months;

-Page10-
(e) An accounting of electric and gas efficiency gained during the prior 12 months and to
date in terms of kilowatt hours and British thermal units per year and in terms of the performance
of the authority in meeting the objectives, targets, and performance metrics approved by the board
andcontainedinthetriennialplanandanyplanupdates;
(f) An accounting of jobs created or saved by industry type in the prior 12 months and
therelatedwagesandbenefitslevels;and
(g) Anyrecommendationsforchangestothelawsrelatingtoenergyefficiency.
362-J:16 Revolving Loan Programs. The authority may establish one or more revolving loan
programstopromotethepurposesofthischapterandallocatefundingasappropriate.
I. Loan programs shall be appropriately targeted consistent with the requirements
governing the use of source funds and in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. The
authorityshallkeepseparateaccountsandrecordsforeachloanprogram.
II. The authority shall credit all repayment of loans, including interest, penalties, and other
feesandrelatedchargestothespecificloanprogramaccounttowhichitrelates.
III. Money allocated to a revolving loan program that is not needed to meet the current
obligations of that program should be invested in a manner approved by the state treasurer.
Interest received on that investment must be credited to that specific revolving loan program
account.
IV. Loans shall be made on terms and conditions as the authority shall deem necessary or
desirable, including, without limitation, provisions requiring that collateral be pledged to secure the
loan, restrictions on the use of loan proceeds, restrictions on the use, operation, or transferability of
any project financed or assisted by the loan, controls on the requisition of loan proceeds, appropriate
events of default, provisions for payment to the authority of origination fees, late charges and
additionalinterest onoverduepayments of principal, interest or other charges, appropriatefinancial
covenants,andprovisionsfortheestablishmentofreservesfortheprojectortheloan.
V. At the end of each calendar year, all unencumbered balances in a specific loan program
account must be carried forward to be used to support that revolving loan program until that loan
programisdiscontinued.
362-J:17 GuaranteeofLoansforNuclearGeneration-RelatedIndustryDevelopment.
I. Upon recommendation of the authority for the proper implementation of the declared
purposes of this chapter, the governor and council may award a state guarantee of the principal of,
interest on, and related reasonable collection expenses and costs of any loan made by a private
financial institution for the development of any nuclear generation business or any business in the
state that solely supports the nuclear generation business, including nuclear design-build firms,
nuclear generation facility component construction firms, that is or will be operating in the state,
providedthatthebusinessisalsoreceivingfundingfromtheUnitedStatesDepartmentofEnergyin
theformofaloan,loanguarantee,grant,voucherorsimilarforthesameorrelatedprojectthatisor

-Page11-
will be operating in the state. Such guarantee may be up to 90 percent of the portion of the loan not
guaranteed by another entity, or $20,000,000, whichever is less. The authority may execute and
deliver any agreement or document required by the United States Department of Energy to
implement the guarantee program authorized in this section. The full faith and credit of the state
may be pledged for any such guarantee. In addition, the guarantee shall also include interest and
relatedreasonablecollectionexpensesandcosts.
II. The state's guarantee of a loan under this section shall be evidenced by a guarantee
agreement entered into by the state, the lending financial institution, and the borrower. Such
guarantee agreement shall contain such terms and conditions as the authority and the governor and
council may impose, including, without limitation, restrictions on the use of loan proceeds,
restrictions on the use and operation of any project financed or assisted by the loan, appropriate
controls on the requisition of loan proceeds by the borrower, provisions for the state to demand
acceleration of the payment of the loan in the event of a default by the borrower, provisions for
payment to the authority of guarantee fees and reimbursement of costs and expenses, provisions for
reimbursement of the state if the state is required to honor the guarantee, appropriate financial
covenants, and provisions for the establishment of reserves. In addition, as a condition of awarding
any guarantee, the state shall be subrogated to all of the rights and security of the lending financial
institution to the extent it honors the guarantee. Any guarantee agreement authorized in
accordance with this section shall be executed on behalf of the state by the executive director of the
authority. Thegovernor, withtheadviceand consentof thecouncil,is authorized todraw awarrant
for such sum as may be necessary out of money in the state treasury not otherwise appropriated, for
thepurposeofhonoringanyguaranteeawardedunderthissection.
III. The sum of the guarantees issued to any one borrower by both the authority and other
entities shall not exceed $222,222,222 of principal. The total principal amount of any loan or loans
guaranteed under this section made to one borrower to finance working capital shall not exceed
$2,000,000. In addition, the guarantee shall also include interest and related reasonable collection
costsandexpenses.
IV. The amount of any guarantee awarded under this section shall be reduced in proportion
toanyreductionintheprincipalbalanceoftheloan.
V. Before awarding any state guarantee of a loan under this section, the governor and
council,afterahearing,shallhavemadethefollowingfindings:
(a) The award of the state guarantee will contribute significantly to the success of the
loanissuanceandtheauthority'sprogramsunderthischapter.
(b) Reasonableandappropriatemeasureshavebeentakentominimizetheriskoflossto
the state and to ensure that any private benefit from the award of the guarantee shall be only
incidentaltothepublicpurposeservedthereby.

-Page12-
(c) Any hearing held under this section shall be for the information of the governor and
council and shall not be treated as determining the rights, duties, or privileges of any entity or
person. The governor and executive council shall not be required to conduct adjudicative
proceedingsunderRSA541inconnectionwithanyactiontakenunderthissection.
362-J:18 Guarantee Fund Established. In order to provide additional security to the state for
any loan guarantees made under RSA 362-C:17 and bond guarantees under RSA 362-C:22, there is
herebyestablishedaloanguaranteereservefund,whichshallbeheldbytheauthorityapartfromall
of its other funds, and which shall be deemed irrevocably pledged to secure all loans guaranteed
under RSA 362-C:17 and RSA 362-C:22. Whenever a loan guarantee is awarded under RSA 362-
C:17, the authority, the borrower, the lending financial institution, any purchaser of the loans, or
any appropriate combination of them shall deposit in such fund an amount equal to not less than 10
percent of the guaranteed portion of the principal of the loan or loans. If a state guarantee is called
upon to be honored, the authority, upon direction of its treasurer, shall draw upon such fund for the
purpose of honoring such guarantee, and only when amounts in the fund are exhausted shall the
governor be called upon to draw a warrant pursuant to RSA 362-C:17, II or RSA 362-C:22, I.
Interest earned on amounts invested in the fund shall be accumulated therein or paid to the
authorityuponitsdirection. Ifearningsarepaidtotheauthority,theymaybeusedbytheauthority
to fund the guarantee fund. The authority may enter into such trust agreements, depository
agreements, or other arrangements with one or more financial institutions approved by the state
treasurerinordertocarryoutthepurposesofthissection.
362-J:19 LoansforNuclearandNuclear-RelatedIndustryDevelopment.
I. The authority may lend money to a business in the state that solely supports the nuclear
generation business, including nuclear design-build firms, nuclear generation facility component
construction firms, and the like, that is or will be operating in the state. Any such loan shall be on
such terms and conditions as prescribed by the authority and shall be evidenced by a promissory
notegivenbythebusinesstotheauthority. Inaddition, priortomakinganyloan,theauthorityand
the business shall enter into a loan agreement specifying the terms and conditions of the loan. Any
loan agreement shall specify the terms of repayment of the loan, provide for the payment of an
appropriate interest rate, and obligate the business to pay all the costs and expenses of upkeep,
maintenance, and operation of the project being financed. A loan agreement may also provide such
terms and conditions as the authority shall deem necessary or desirable, including, without
limitation, provisions requiring that collateral be pledged to secure the loan, restrictions on the use
ofloanproceeds,restrictionsontheuseandoperationofanyprojectfinancedorassistedbytheloan,
controls on the requisition of loan proceeds, appropriate events of default, provisions for payment to
the authority of origination fees, late charges and additional interest on overdue payments of
principal, interest or other charges, appropriate financial covenants, and provisions for the
establishmentofreservesfortheprojectortheloan.

-Page13-
II. Anyloanmadeunderthissectionshallmeetthefollowingminimumrequirements:
(a) The total principal amount of any loan or loans made to one borrower under this
sectionshallnotexceed$2,000,000.
(b) The final maturity date of any loan or loans, including renewals, shall not be later
thanthelaterof3yearsfromthedatetheloanismade.
III. The authority shall not make any loan or enter into any loan agreement under this
section unless, after a hearing, the governor and council have made the findings specified in RSA
162-A:18.
362-J:20 IssuanceofBonds.
I. The authority may issue bonds pursuant to this section which shall be obligations of the
authority and not general obligations of the state, except as provided in RSA 162-A:17. Such bonds
maybeissued from time totimeconsistent withthe purposes and provisions of this chapter to make
loans to businesses under RSA 362-C:17, to make contributions to the loan guarantee fund under
RSA 362-C:18, to pay or refund any bonds issued pursuant to this section or interest thereon, or to
pay the costs and expenses of the authority. The principal of, and premium, if any, and interest on
all bonds shall be payable solely by the authority in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
The bonds shall be issued by the authority in such amounts as the board shall determine, not
exceeding in the aggregate at any time $25,000,000. Bonds of each issue shall be dated, shall bear
interest at such rate or rates, including rates variable from time to time as determined by such
index, banker's loan rate, or other method as may be determined by the authority, and shall mature
at such time or times as may be determined by the authority, except that no bonds shall mature
more than 30 years from their date of issue. Bonds may be made redeemable before maturity either
at the option of the authority or at the option of the holder, or upon the occurrence of specified
events, at suchprice or prices and under such terms and conditions as may be fixed by the authority
prior to the issuance of the bonds. The authority shall determine the form and details of the bond.
Thebondsmaybesoldinsuchmanner,eitheratpublicorprivatesale,forsuchprice,atsuchrateor
ratesofinterest,oratsuchdiscountinlieuofinterestastheauthoritymaydetermine.
II. Every bond shall be signed on behalf of the authority by 2 persons designated by the
authority. One person shall be a member of the board who is also the chairperson of the board, or
the vice chairperson of the board, or the treasurer of the authority. The other person shall be any
member of the board or the executive director of the authority. The signatures may be manual or
facsimile, but at least one signature on every bond shall be manual, unless the bond bears a manual
authentication or certification by a bank, trust company, or other financial institution, in which case
both signatures on behalf of the authority may be facsimile. Interest coupons, if any, shall bear the
facsimile signature of one of the persons signing the bond on behalf of the authority. Bonds shall
also bear the seal of the authority or a facsimile of the seal. Bonds executed as provided in this

-Page14-
paragraph shall be valid notwithstanding that any or all of the persons whose signatures appear on
thebondshallhaveceasedtoholdofficebeforedeliveryofandpaymentforthebond.
III. Any bonds issued under this chapter may be issued pursuant to and entitled to the
benefits of a security document between the authority and a corporate trustee, which may be any
trust company or bank having the powers of a trust company within or without the state, or by a
security document directly between the authority and the purchasers of the bonds. Such security
document shall be in such form and executed in such manner as may be determined by the board.
Such security document may include the mortgage, pledge, or grant of a security interest in any
property of the authority and may pledge or assign, in whole or in part, the revenues held or to be
receivedbytheauthority,anycontract orotherrights toreceivetherevenues,whetherthenexisting
or thereafter coming into existence and whether then held or thereafter acquired by the authority,
and any proceeds thereof. Such security documents may contain provisions for protecting and
enforcingtherights,security,andremediesofthebondholdersasmay,inthediscretionoftheboard,
be reasonable and proper and not in violation of law. Such security documents may include
provisions defining defaults and providing for remedies in the event of defaults, which may include
the acceleration of maturities and the enforcement of any mortgage, pledge or security interest, and
covenants setting forth the duties of, and limitations on, the authority in relation to the custody,
safeguarding, investment, and application of moneys, the issue of additional or refunding bonds, the
fixing,revisionandcollectionoffeesandotherrevenues,theuseofbondproceeds,theestablishment
of reserves, the acquisition of any property or interest therein or undertaking of any project, any
contracts relating thereto and subsequent amendments of such provisions and contracts. It shall be
lawful for any bank or trust company to act as a depository or trustee of the proceeds of bonds,
revenues, or other moneys under a security document and to furnish such indemnification or to
pledge such securities and issue such letters or lines of credit or credit facilities as may be required
by the authority acting under the paragraph. Any such security document may set forth the rights
and remedies of bondholders and of the trustee and may restrict the individual right of action by
bondholders.
IV. Any bonds issued under authority of this chapter may be issued pursuant to lines of
credit or other banking arrangements under such terms and conditions not inconsistent with this
chapter, and under such agreements with the purchasers or makers thereof, as the board may
determine to be in the best interests of the authority. In addition to other security provided herein
or otherwise by law, bonds issued by the authority under this section may be secured, in whole or in
part, by insurance or by letters or lines of credit or other credit facilities issued to the authority by
any bank, trust company, or other financial institution, within or without the state, and the
authoritymaymake anypledge, mortgage, assignment, or security interest inrespect of its property
and revenues as security for the reimbursement by the authority to the issuers of such letters or
linesofcredit,insuranceorcreditfacilities,oranypaymentsmadethereunder.

-Page15-
V. Anymortgage,pledge,orsecurityinterestmadebytheauthorityunderthischaptershall
be valid and binding and shall be deemed continuously perfected for the purposes of RSA 382-A and
all other laws from the time when the mortgage, pledge, or security interest is made. The property
or revenues so mortgaged, pledged, or subjected to a security interest then held or thereafter
acquired or received by the authority shall immediately be subject to the lien of such mortgage,
pledge, or security interest without any physical delivery or segregation thereof or further act. The
lien of such mortgage, pledge, or security interest shall be valid and binding against all parties
having claims of any kind in tort, contract, or otherwise against the authority, irrespective of
whether such parties have notice thereof. No such property or revenues may be used in a manner
inconsistent with the terms governing such mortgage, pledge, or security interest. Any agreement
by which a pledge or security interest in personal property is created under this chapter shall be
filed or recorded in the records of the secretary of state. Any mortgage or other agreement by which
a security interest in real property is created under this chapter shall be filed with the register of
deedsforthecountyinwhichsuchpropertyislocated.
VI. Any owner of a bond issued under the provisions of this section and any trustee under a
securitydocument securing thesame, except tothe extent therights given inthis paragraph may be
restricted by such security document, may bring suit upon the bonds and may, either at law or in
equity, by suit, action, mandamus, or other proceeding for legal or equitable relief, protect and
enforce any and all rights under the laws of the state granted hereunder or under such security
document, and mayenforce and compel performanceof all duties required bythis chapter or by such
securitydocumenttobeperformedbytheauthorityorbyanydirectororofficeroftheauthority.
VII. The authority may issue refunding bonds for the purpose of paying any bonds issued
under the provisions of this section at or prior to maturity or upon acceleration or redemption.
Refundingbonds maybeissued atsuchtimes prior tothematurityor redemptionof thebonds being
refunded as the board may determine. The refunding bonds may be issued in sufficient amounts to
pay or provide the principal of the bonds being refunded, together with any redemption premium
thereon,anyinterestaccruedortoaccruetothedateofpaymentofsuchbonds,theexpensesofissue
of the refunding bonds, the expenses of redeeming the bonds being refunded, and such reserves for
debt service or other expenses from the proceeds of such refunding bonds as may be required by a
security document securing the bonds. The authorization and issue of refunding bonds, the
maturities and other details thereof, the security therefor, the rights of the holders thereof, and the
rights, duties, and obligations of the authority in respect to the same shall be governed by the
provisions of this chapter relating to the issue of bonds other than refunding bonds insofar as the
samemaybeapplicable.
VIII. Any debt service fund or debt service reserve fund established in connection with the
issuance of bonds under this chapter shall be kept separate from other moneys of the authority. All
proceeds of any bonds issued under this chapter, together with the income derived therefrom, shall

-Page16-
beexpended without further authorizationor appropriationas provided for inthesecuritydocument
withrespecttosuchbonds.
IX. Moneysinanyfundoraccountcreatedundertheprovisionsofthissection,subjecttothe
terms and provisions of any security document applicable thereto, may be invested. Except as
otherwise provided by any such security document, obligations so purchased as an investment of
moneyinsaidfundoraccountshallbedeemedatalltimestobepartofsaidfundoraccount,andthe
interestthereonandanyprofitarisingfromthesalethereofshallbecreditedtosaidfundoraccount,
andanylossresultingfromtheirsaleshallbechargedtosaidfundoraccount,respectively.
X. The state does hereby pledge to and agree with the holders of bonds issued under this
chapter that the state shall not limit or alter the rights hereby vested in the authority to fulfill the
terms of any agreements made with the holders of such bonds or in any way impair the rights and
remedies of such holders until such bonds, together with the interest on them, with the interest on
any unpaid installments of interest, and all costs and expenses in connection with any action or
proceedingbyoronbehalfofsuchholders,arefullymetanddischarged. Theauthorityisauthorized
toincludethispledgeandagreementofthestateinanyagreementwiththeholdersofsuchbonds.
XI. Notwithstandinganyoftheprovisionsofthischapteroranyrecitalsinanybonds issued
underthissection,allsuchbondsshallbedeemedtobeinvestmentsecuritiesunderRSA382-A.
362-J:21 Eligible Investments. Bonds issued under the provisions of this chapter are hereby
made securities in which all public officers, agencies and authorities of the state and of its political
subdivisions, insurance companies, investment companies, executors, administrators, trustees, and
other fiduciaries may properly and legally invest funds, including capital in their control or
belonging to them. Such bonds are hereby made securities that may properly and legally be
deposited with and received by any state or municipal officer or any agency, authority or political
subdivision of the state for any purpose for which the deposit of bonds or obligations of the state or
anypoliticalsubdivisionisnowormayhereafterbeauthorizedbylaw.
362-J:22 StateBondGuarantee.
I. Inview ofthegeneralpublic benefits expectedtobederived fromtheauthority's activities
under this chapter and their contribution to the social welfare and economic prosperity of the state,
the governor and council may award an unconditional state guarantee of the principal and interest
thereonof bonds issued under this chapter. The full faithand creditof thestateshall bepledged for
anysuchguaranteesofprincipalandinterest,butthetotaloutstandingamountofbondsguaranteed
by the state under this section shall not exceed in the aggregate at any time $25,000,000 plus
interest. The governor, with the advice and consent of the council, is authorized to draw a warrant
for such a sum out of any money in the treasury not otherwise appropriated for the purpose of
honoring any guarantee awarded under this section. The state's guarantee shall be evidenced on
eachguaranteedbondbyanendorsementsignedbythestatetreasurerinsubstantiallythefollowing
form: the state of New Hampshire hereby unconditionally guarantees the payment of the whole of

-Page17-
theprincipalandinterestthereonofthewithinbond,andfortheperformanceofsuchguarantee,the
fullfaithandcreditofthestatearepledged.
II. No state guarantee shall be awarded under this section unless the guaranteed bonds are
secured by, among other things, a 10 percent cash reserve. In connection with the award of a state
guarantee, the governor and council may impose such other terms and conditions as they may deem
appropriate concerning the bonds, the use of any property or revenues of the authority, and
reimbursement to the state if any state funds are used to honor the guarantee. Such terms and
conditions may be contained in an agreement between the state and the authority, to be executed on
behalf of the state by the governor and the state treasurer and on behalf of the authority by its
chairperson,vicechairperson,orexecutivedirector.
III. Before awarding any state guarantee of bonds under this section, the governor and
council,afterahearing,shallhavemadethefollowingfindings:
(a) The award of the state guarantee will contribute significantly to the success of the
bondissueandtheauthority'sprogramsunderthischapter.
(b) Reasonableandappropriatemeasureshavebeentakentominimizetheriskoflossto
the state and to ensure that any private benefit from the award of the guarantee shall be only
incidentaltothepublicpurposeservedthereby.
(c) Any hearing held under this section shall be for the information of the governor and
council and shall not be treated as determining the rights, duties, or privileges of any entity or
person. The governor and executive council shall not be required to conduct adjudicative
proceedingsunderRSA541inconnectionwithanyactiontakenunderthissection.
IV. The signature of the state treasurer on an endorsement of a state guarantee may be
manualorfacsimile.
362-J:23 Energy Efficiency Workforce Development. The authority may utilize administrative,
program, or other funds to develop and support a workforce capable of providing energy efficiency
services. Tothisend,theauthoritymaybyruleestablishcertificationstandardsforenergyauditors,
installers of energy efficiency measures, or other service providers that provide services under
programsadministeredbytheauthority.
I. To the extent that funds and resources allow, the authority may establish training
programs for installers of energy equipment that most effectively meet the needs of the public. The
authority:
(a) May develop separate programs for different energy technologies or services when
the authority determines that the skills or training for the installation of those technologies or
servicesmeritthedistinction;
(b) May offer training programs to code enforcement officers, inspectors, or other
professionalsinvolvedindesigning,marketing,regulating,oreducatingaboutenergyequipment;

-Page18-
(c) May offer training programs to contractors or other professionals involved in
designing, installing, or constructing energy efficiency, weatherization, or other building
performancemeasuresforhomesandbusinesses;
(d) Shall confer with relevant professional licensing boards when it develops the course
contentandrequirements;
(e) Shalldeterminethecontentofthetraining,thehoursrequiredforcoursecompletion,
andthemannerinwhichapplicantsmustdemonstrateproficiencyinenergyequipmentinstallation;
(f) May issue a certificate of completion to individuals who meet the requirements the
authorityhasestablished;
(g) May establish reasonable course fees. All fees must be paid to the authority to be
usedforthepurposesofthischapter;
(h) Shall determine terms for the expiration and renewal of an applicant’s certificate of
completion;and
(i) A certificate of completion issued by the authority does not exempt the holder from
anyapplicablelicensingrequirementsforactivitiesinvolvedininstallingenergyequipment.
II. To the extent that funds and resources allow, the authority shall set standards for
training programs for energy auditors that most effectively meet the needs of the public and that
satisfy the requirements of funding sources. For the purposes of this section, an energy auditor is a
personwhoistrainedtoprepareareportthatdelineatestheenergyconsumptioncharacteristicsofa
building, identifies appropriate energy efficiency operations and maintenance procedures, and
recommendsappropriateenergyefficiencymeasures. Theauthority:
(a) May develop separate programs for audits of different building types and functions
when the authority determines that the skills or training needed to perform these audits merit the
distinction;
(b) Shalldeterminethecontentofthetraining,thehoursrequiredforcoursecompletion,
andthemannerinwhichapplicantsmustdemonstrateproficiencyinenergyauditing;
(c) Shall issue a certificate of completion to individuals who meet the requirements the
authorityhasestablished;
(d) Mayestablishreasonablecoursefees.Allfeescollectedbytheauthoritymustbeused
forthepurposesofthissection;
(e) Shall determine terms for the expiration and renewal of an applicant’s certificate of
completion;
(f) Shall determine an appropriate means of maintaining recognition of the training
receivedbypersonsholdingacertification;
(g) Shall work with state agencies and other interested parties to establish certification
standardsforenergyauditorswhoperformworkunderprogramsadministeredbytheauthority;and

-Page19-
(h) Shallrecognizeotherestablishedtrainingprogramsthatoffercertificationconsistent
withtheauthority’senergyauditortrainingstandards.
362-J:24 Nuclear Industry Workforce Development. The authority may utilize administrative,
program,orotherfundstodevelopandsupportaworkforcecapableofsupportinggenerationIII-plus
andgenerationIVnucleargenerationandrelatedindustriesinthestate,includingbutnotlimitedto
advanced nuclear reactors as defined in 42 U.S.C. Section 16271 as amended from time to time. To
the extent funds permit, the authority shall coordinate with industry, the community college system
of New Hampshire, the university system of New Hampshire, and private schools of higher
education, including trade schools, as those private schools are willing to create educational and
training programs that will prepare students for energy economics, mathematics, nuclear science,
technology,engineering,andmanufacturingcareersinthestate.
362-J:25 Coordination With Other Entities. Consistent with the requirements of this chapter
and other applicable laws, the state agencies and authorities that relate to the purposes of this
chapter shall coordinate with the activities and programs of the authority in order to align such
activities and maximize benefits to New Hampshire energy customers, residents, businesses, and
students. For purposes of this section, state agencies and authorities required to coordinate their
activities with the authority’s programs include but are not limited to the department of energy
office of energy and innovation and weatherization assistance program, the business finance
authority energy conservation loan program, the department of business and economic affairs, the
New Hampshire bureau of vocational rehabilitation, the community college system of New
Hampshire,andtheuniversitysystemofNewHampshire.
362-J:26 Conflicts of Interest; Financial Disclosure Statements. Notwithstanding any other
provision of law to the contrary, all members of the board of directors, the executive director, and
any officer of the corporation shall be subject to the disclosure and penalty requirements of RSA
Chapter 15-A. Neither appointed members of the board of directors nor officers or employees of the
authority shall be subject to RSA Chapter 15-B or RSA 21-G:21 through RSA 21-G:27 by virtue of
relationshipwiththeauthority.
362-J:27 FalseStatements. Inadditiontoanyother remedyinlaw or equity, theauthoritymay
prohibit a personor entity from applying to theauthority or its subgrantees or any entity contracted
to perform program administration on behalf of the authority for any loan or other program benefit
or incentive under this chapter, and may withhold all or the balance of the same, if the authority
determines that such person or entity knowingly made a false statement, or knowingly
misrepresented or failed to state a material fact necessary in order to make a statement not
misleading in light of the circumstances under which the statement was made, in any document or
otherpresentationsubmittedtotheauthority,itssubgrantee,orcontractedprogramadministrator.
362-J:28 Transition of Energy Efficiency Programming. The commissioner of the department of
energy shall decide whether and when the authority is fully formed and capable of performing its

-Page20-
duties under this chapter and sufficient communication and cooperation has been established
between the authority and the utilities. The commissioner of the department of energy shall set a
date for the transition of energy efficiency programming responsibilities described in this chapter
from the utilities to the authority. The authority shall first implement what remains of the most
recenttriennialplanandanyupdateapprovedbythepublicutilitiescommission,withoutalteration,
beforeimplementingitsownprograms.
2 EffectiveDate. ThisactshalltakeeffectJanuary1,2027.

LBA
Revised1/5/26
HB1748-FN-FISCALNOTE
ASINTRODUCED
ANACT establishing the New Hampshire energy efficiency and resource development
authority.
FISCALIMPACT: Thisbilldoesnotprovidefunding,nordoesitauthorizenewpositions.
Estimated State Impact
FY2026 FY2027 FY2028 FY2029
Revenue $0 $0 $0 $0
RevenueFund(s) None
Indeterminable Indeterminable Indeterminable
(GeneralFund (GeneralFund (GeneralFund
andEnergy andEnergy andEnergy
Expenditures* $0 EfficiencyFund) EfficiencyFund) EfficiencyFund)
$121,000 $125,000
$1,000(Utility
(Utility (Utility
Assessments)
Assessments) Assessments)
FundingSource(s) GeneralFund,EnergyEfficiencyFundandUtilityAssessments
Appropriations* $0 $0 $0 $0
FundingSource(s) None
*Expenditure=Costofbill *Appropriation=Authorizedfundingtocovercostofbill
Estimated Political Subdivision Impact
FY2026 FY2027 FY2028 FY2029
CountyRevenue $0 $0 $0 $0
CountyExpenditures $0 $0 $0 $0
LocalRevenue $0 Indeterminable Indeterminable Indeterminable
LocalExpenditures $0 Indeterminable Indeterminable Indeterminable
METHODOLOGY:
ThisbillestablishestheNewHampshireEnergyEfficiencyandResourceDevelopmentAuthority
todevelop, plan, coordinate, and implement statewideenergy efficiencyprograms and to support
the preservation, establishment, and redevelopment of nuclear power generation and related
industries. The bill creates a ten member board of directors, authorizes the Authority to
administer energy efficiency programs currently funded through system benefits charges and
other sources, permits the Authority to establish revolving loan programs and, authorizes state

guaranteedloansandbondsfornuclearrelateddevelopment. Thebillalsorequirescertainstate
agenciestoprovidedatatosupportlowincomeenergyefficiencyprogramadministration.
The Department of Energy states this bill would require additional administrative resources to
support the creation and transition of energy efficiency programs from regulated utilities to the
newly established authority. To ensure a smooth transition, the Department estimates it would
require one full time temporary position (13-1190 MISC BUS OPS SPECS-7 SOC13-07) to begin
July 1, 2026, prior to the January 1, 2027 effective date of the bill, in order to support start up
activities, coordination with utilities, development of data reporting processes, and preparation
for the transfer of program responsibilities. The Department estimates the cost associated with
this position would be $121,000 in FY 2027 and $125,000 in FY 2028, funded through utility
assessments. The cost in FY 2029 would be $1,000 for close out activities. The bill does not
authorizeorfundthisposition.
TheDepartmentofEnergyalsonotesadditionalcostsrelatedtoproducingreportsandmodifying
existing software systems to provide low income customer data to the authority, as required by
the bill. The cost of these system changes is currently unknown. All administrative costs
associated with the authority would be subject to the statutory cap limiting administrative
expenditures to no more than 10 percent of annual program funds. The Department further
states if the authority’s administrative costs exceed the combined administrative costs and
performance incentives currently incurred by the utilities, fewer funds would be available for
energy efficiency programs. This could result in higher utility costs for the State as a customer;
however,thefiscalimpactisindeterminable.
The Treasury Department states this bill would establish a new Authority with the ability to
issue loans, provide loan guarantees, and issue bonds supported by a state guarantee. The
Department notes that the State Treasurer or designee would serve as a member of the
Authority’s board of directors. The Department indicates there is no immediate fiscal impact to
theStateunderthebill. However,theauthorizationofstateguaranteedloansandbondscreates
a contingent liability for the State if guarantees are called. The State may be responsible for up
to $20,000,000 per loan guarantee and up to $25,000,000 plus interest for bonds guaranteed
underthebill. TheDepartmentfurthernotesthattheseguaranteeswouldaffecttheState’sdebt
limit calculation under RSA 6-C, because guaranteed debt is included in authorized and
unissueddebt.
The Department of Health and Human Services states this bill requires that certain household
data be furnished to the Authority related to low income energy efficiency program eligibility.
The Department explains that federal law prohibits the disclosure of information related to
SNAP, Medicaid, TANF, childcare scholarship programs, and related assistance programs, and

that state law restricts disclosure of information related to state supplemental cash assistance
programs. Because the requested data cannot be shared due to federal confidentiality
requirements, the Department states it does not expect to provide the information contemplated
by the bill. As a result, the Department does not anticipate any impact on State revenues or
expenditures
The Public Utilities Commission states it lacks sufficient data to estimate the revenues or
expenditures associated with the creation and operation of the New Hampshire Energy
EfficiencyandResourceDevelopmentAuthority.
This bill could have a fiscal impact on municipal revenues and expenditures to the extent
municipalitiesgrant fundstotheAuthorityorreceivefundingfor energyefficiencyprojects. The
fiscal impact on local revenues and expenditures is indeterminable because it is not possible to
determine which municipalities would choose to provide funding or participate in projects
administeredbytheNewHampshireEnergyEfficiencyandResourceDevelopmentAuthority.
AGENCIESCONTACTED:
Department of Energy, Treasury Department, Public Utilities Commission, and Department of
HealthandHumanServices
