HB433

I3RVFWZ-1

By Representatives Hassell, Jones, Bracy, Tillman, Givan,

Moore (M), Morris, Datcher, Sellers, Travis, Gray, Ensler,

Lands, Hollis, Lawrence, Chestnut, Rafferty, McCampbell,

Drummond

RFD: Constitution, Campaigns and Elections

First Read: 12-Feb-26

Page 0

I3RVFWZ-1 11/03/2025 PMG (L)PMG 2025-2192

SYNOPSIS:

The Fair Campaign Practices Act requires the

Secretary of State to publish on a searchable database

all campaign finance filings.

This bill would require the redaction of the

residential address of any candidate or elected

official prior to publication.

This bill would also make nonsubstantive,

technical revisions to update the existing code

language to current style.

A BILL

TO BE ENTITLED

AN ACT

Relating to campaign finance; to amend Section

17-5-8.1, Code of Alabama 1975; to require the redaction of

residential addresses of candidates and elected officials on

all campaign finance filings; and to make nonsubstantive,

technical revisions to update the existing code language to

current style.

BE IT ENACTED BY THE LEGISLATURE OF ALABAMA:

Section 1. Section 17-5-8.1, Code of Alabama 1975, is
amended to read as follows:
Page 1

"§17-5-8.1

(a) Commencing with the 2014 election cycle, all All

statements, reports of contributions, and expenditures, and

other filings required to be filed pursuant to this chapter,

shall be submitted electronically over the Internet by a

computer file containing the report information in a format

and medium to be prescribed by the Secretary of State.

(b) Commencing with the 2014 election cycle, the The

Secretary of State shall implement and maintain an electronic

database accessible by the public through the Secretary of

State's website which provides the capability of search and

retrieval of all statements, reports, and other filings

required to be filed with the Secretary of State pursuant to

this chapter. The searchable database shall provide the

ability to search by a recipient's name, a contributor's name,

a contributor's or recipient's Zip Code, and dates of

contributions. Before publishing any statements, reports, or

other filings on the searchable database or on any other

website, the Secretary of State shall redact the residential

address of any candidate or elected official.

(c) Unless otherwise included in a report made pursuant

to subsection (a) of Section 17-5-8(a), the principal campaign

committee or political action committee shall file a report

disclosing the receipt of any single contribution of twenty

thousand dollars ($20,000) or more. These reports shall

disclose the same information required by Section 17-5-8, and

shall be filed within two business days of receipt of the

contribution. Beginning with the 2014 election cycle these
Page 2

reports shall be filed electronically.
(d) Beginning with the 2012 election cycle, a A

principal campaign committee or political action committee

shall close its books in order to complete its reports two

days prior to the specified reporting dates.

(e) The Secretary of State may promulgate

administrative adopt rules pursuant to the Alabama

Administrative Procedure Act as are necessary to implement and

administer this section and Section 17-5-8."

Section 2. This act shall become effective immediately.

Page 3
