HB67

CXE5RWJ-1

By Representatives Kiel, Brown, Moore (P), Bedsole, Oliver,

Lamb, DuBose, Reynolds, Gidley, Mooney, Brinyark, Smith,

Crawford, Shaw, Ingram, Whorton, Fincher, Stadthagen,

Kirkland, Bolton, Rehm, Paschal, Hammett, Marques, Lipscomb,

Faulkner, Ross, Carns, Pettus, Underwood, Paramore, Givens,

Wilcox, Stubbs

RFD: Constitution, Campaigns and Elections

First Read: 13-Jan-26

PFD: 17-Nov-25

Page 0

CXE5RWJ-1 11/04/2025 JWB (L)lg 2025-3220

SYNOPSIS:
Under existing law, the reproduction cost of a

registered voter list is not capped, and the reproduced

voter list may include certain confidential voter

information.

This bill would cap the maximum reproduction

purchase cost and would prohibit the distribution of

certain confidential voter information.

A BILL

TO BE ENTITLED

AN ACT

Relating to elections; to amend Section 17-4-38, Code

of Alabama 1975, relating to the dissemination of voter

registration information; to limit the reproduction purchase

cost for the list of registered voters; to prohibit certain

information from being disseminated in a list of registered

voters; and to prohibit the use of voter data or information

for commercial purposes.

BE IT ENACTED BY THE LEGISLATURE OF ALABAMA:

Section 1. Section 17-4-38, Code of Alabama 1975, is
amended to read as follows:
"§17-4-38
Page 1

(a) The Secretary of State shall ensure that all

applicants obtain requested voter lists electronically and in

a timely manner. MethodsThe Secretary of State shall be

established for the transmission of tapes, discs, or lists to

any applicant establish procedures to allow any applicant to

request and obtain voter lists in an electronic format. The

Secretary of State shall notHindrances shall not be created or

devised to delay transmission of tapes, discs, or voter lists

to any applicant.
(b) Except as provided in this section, therethe

Secretary of State shall be a uniform charge for the

production of voter listsa fee not exceeding one thousand

dollars ($1,000) per electronic voter list produced.

TheOtherwise, the reproduction costscost of the basic

electronic copy of the statewide file, or any portion thereof,

shall be reasonable as determined by the Secretary of State,

and a fee schedule shall be conspicuously posted in the office

of the Secretary of State on the Secretary of State's website.

Costs of printed copies of lists are as otherwise provided by

law.

(c)(1) Access to the lists and voter history

information contained on the central computer in the office of

the Secretary of State is accessible to anyone making

application, except The voter lists and election history

information for the last 10 election cycles in which a voter

participated, as contained in the statewide voter registration

database in the Office of the Secretary of State, shall be

accessible to any person who files an application to receive
Page 2

an electronic copy of a voter list and pays the required fee.
(2) The following personal voter information used for

voter registration purposes is confidential and may not be

disseminated:

a. Social Security numbers.

b. Driver license numbers.

c. Voter identification numbers.

d. Months and days of birth.

e. Email addresses.

f. Telephone numbers which are not to be released.

g. Voter information protected by Section

17-4-33(b)(1).

(3) The prohibition against the dissemination of

confidential information in subdivision (2) does not apply to

federal, state, or local government agencies that are

authorized to confidentially access, use, and maintain the

information.

(d) Proceeds from the sale of tapes, discs, lists,

labels, or other materialsthe statewide voter list and

election history information from the Secretary of State shall

be retained by the Secretary of State for use in voter

registration.

(e) The Secretary of State shall provide, without

charge, each legislator one copy of the voter list in his or

her district within 90 days of his or herthe legislator

assuming office.

(f) Upon application and without charge, the Secretary
of State shall provide the Administrative Office of Courts
Page 3

shall be provided with an electronic copy of the statewide

voter list no more than once a year for its use in the

production of a master jury list or for any other lawful

purpose.

(g) Upon application and without charge, the Secretary

of State shall provide the chief elections officer of any

other state shall be provided with an electronic copy of the

statewide voter list no more than once a year for any lawful

purpose, on the condition that the chief elections officer of

the requesting state agrees to reciprocate and provide a copy

of the statewide voter list of that state to the chief

elections officer of this state upon request and without

charge, to be used for any lawful purpose. The Secretary of

State may enter into an agreement with any other state, at any

time, regarding the exchange of statewide voter lists.
(h) Resale ofExcept as provided in this section and

Sections 11-46-36, 17-4-1, and 17-16-2, it shall be unlawful

to sell or publish any portion of thea voter list or use voter

data or information maintained by the Secretary of State under

this section for commercial purposes by the Administrative

Office of Courts, or the office of the chief elections officer

of any other state, shall be strictly prohibited."

Section 2. This act shall become effective on June 1,
2026.

Page 4
