SB166 INTRODUCED

SB166

YMVMV6N-1

By Senators Figures, Coleman, Stewart, Kelley,

Coleman-Madison, Smitherman, Sessions, Chesteen, Kitchens,

Williams, Melson, Hatcher

RFD: Fiscal Responsibility and Economic Development

First Read: 14-Jan-26

Page 0

YMVMV6N-1 01/14/2026 PMG (L)cr 2025-3582

SYNOPSIS:

The Fair Campaign Practices Act requires

political action committees, principal campaign

committees, and in certain circumstances municipal

candidates to file periodic reports and statements of

campaign activity, including details relating to

contributions, expenditures, bank accounts, and loans.

Prosecutions for violations of the act must be brought

within two years from the date of the violation, except

prosecutions for violating the law governing how excess

campaign contributions may be spent must be brought

within four years from the date of the violation.

This bill would require any committee or other

person required to file a report or statement under the

act to preserve all records for a period of four years

after the filing date of the report or statement to

which the record relates.

A BILL

TO BE ENTITLED

AN ACT

Relating to campaign finance; to add Section 17-5-6.1
to the Code of Alabama 1975, to require persons that are
Page 1

SB166 INTRODUCED

required to file any report or statement under the Fair

Campaign Practices Act to preserve relevant records for a

period of four years.

BE IT ENACTED BY THE LEGISLATURE OF ALABAMA:

Section 1. Section 17-5-6.1 is added to the Code of
Alabama 1975, to read as follows:

§17-5-6.1

Each political action committee, principal campaign

committee, or other person required to file any report or

statement under this chapter shall preserve all relevant

records for a period of four years after the filing date of

the report or statement to which the records relate. For

purposes of this section, records include: (i) any record or

account required under this chapter; and (ii) a copy of each

report or statement filed under this chapter and all records

relevant to the report or statement. A record may be destroyed

after the expiration of this four-year period.

Section 2. This act shall become effective on October
1, 2026.

Page 2
