Florida Senate - 2026

By Senator Bracy Davis

20261598__

A bill to be entitled

An act relating to elections; amending s. 20.10, F.S.;

requiring that the Secretary of State be elected,

rather than appointed, and serve a specified term;

specifying when such election must occur; amending s.

20.32, F.S.; requiring the Florida Commission on

Offender Review to develop and maintain a database for

a specified purpose; specifying database requirements;

requiring specified entities to provide specified

information to the commission on a monthly basis;

requiring the Department of Management Services,

acting through the Florida Digital Service, to provide

technical assistance to the commission in developing

and maintaining the database; authorizing the

Department of Management Services to adopt rules;

requiring the commission to make the database publicly

available on a website by a specified date; requiring

the commission to update the database monthly;

requiring the commission to publish certain

instructions on the website; requiring the commission

to submit a certain comprehensive plan to the Governor

and the Legislature by a specified date; specifying

requirements for the comprehensive plan; providing

that certain persons who register to vote may not be

charged with certain violations as a result of such

registration or voting; requiring the Division of

Elections and the supervisors of elections to complete

the necessary steps to reregister individuals under

specified conditions; requiring the division and
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261598__

supervisors to send certain mail to individuals under

specified conditions; requiring the information in the

statewide database to be updated weekly rather than

monthly during a specified timeframe; requiring the

commission to adopt rules; amending s. 97.021, F.S.;

defining terms; revising the definition of the term

“election”; providing construction; repealing s.

97.022, F.S., relating to the Office of Election

Crimes and Security; repealing s. 97.0291, F.S.,

relating to prohibiting the use of private funds for

election-related expenses; creating s. 97.0556, F.S.;

authorizing a person who meets certain requirements to

register to vote for the early voting period or

election day at an early voting site or his or her

polling place and cast a ballot immediately

thereafter; amending s. 97.057, F.S.; authorizing the

Department of Highway Safety and Motor Vehicles to

preregister certain individuals to vote; providing

that driver license or identification card

applications, driver license or identification card

renewal applications, and applications for changes of

address for existing driver licenses or identification

cards submitted to the department serve as voter

registration applications; providing that an applicant

is deemed to have consented to the use of his or her

signature for voter registration purposes unless a

declination is made; requiring that specified

applications include a voter registration component,

subject to approval by the Department of State;
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261598__

providing requirements for the voter registration

component; requiring the Department of Highway Safety

and Motor Vehicles to transmit voter registration

information electronically to the Department of State

within a specified timeframe; requiring the Department

of State to provide such information to supervisors of

elections; deleting a provision prohibiting persons

providing voter registration services for a driver

license office from making changes to an applicant’s

party affiliation without the applicant’s consent and

separate signature; requiring the Department of

Highway Safety and Motor Vehicles to ensure that all

registration services comply with state and federal

laws; requiring the Department of Highway Safety and

Motor Vehicles, as soon as practicable, to notify the

Department of State of any change to a driver license

number or identification card number; requiring the

Department of State to transmit such changes to the

appropriate supervisor; requiring such supervisors to

update registration records and provide notice by mail

of such change to the registrant; prohibiting a change

in a driver license or an identification card number

from being the sole basis that prevents an otherwise

eligible citizen from casting his or her ballot;

deleting obsolete language; making technical changes;

amending s. 97.0575, F.S.; revising the information a

third-party voter registration organization is

required to provide to the Division of Elections of

the Department of State; deleting a provision that
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261598__

provides for the expiration of such organization’s

registration at the conclusion of the general election

cycle for which the organization is registered;

deleting provisions requiring such organizations to

provide a specified receipt in a uniform format to

applicants; revising the timeframe within which such

organizations must deliver completed applications to

the division or a supervisor of elections; revising

certain penalties; revising the aggregate limit of

such penalties; requiring that fines be remitted to

specified supervisors of elections; requiring such

supervisors to expend monies collected from such fines

for specified purposes; deleting criminal and

administrative penalties; deleting provisions

requiring the division to adopt certain rules;

deleting provisions that prohibit providing applicants

a pre-filled voter registration application and the

specified fine for such action; deleting provisions

for retroactive application; creating part III of ch.

97, F.S., entitled “Florida Voting Rights Act”;

creating s. 97.21, F.S.; prohibiting local

governments, state agencies, and state officials from

implementing, imposing, or enforcing election

policies, practices, or actions that result in, will

result in, or are intended to result in specified

disparities or impairments; providing that it is not a

violation if such entities demonstrate, by a specified

evidentiary standard, certain conditions; providing

that it is always a violation if specified
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261598__

circumstances exist; prohibiting local governments

from employing methods of election that have the

effect, will likely have the effect, or are motivated

in part by the intent of diluting the vote of

protected class members; providing the requirements to

establish a violation; providing relevant factors to

evaluate the totality of circumstances related to

voter suppression and vote dilution; providing

construction; providing that such factors are most

probative under a specified condition; providing

circumstances used to determine whether elections in

the local government exhibit racially polarized

voting; providing construction; providing

circumstances that are never relevant to violations of

specified provisions; providing that a state interest

in preventing voter fraud or bolstering voter

confidence in the integrity of elections is relevant

under specified circumstances; providing that evidence

concerning the intent of electors, elected officials,

and public officials is not required to prove such

violations; providing that voting habits of protected

class members may be relevant to certain violations;

requiring a prospective plaintiff, before filing a

certain action against a local government, to send a

notification letter, by specified means, to the local

government; prohibiting a party from filing an action

under specified circumstances; authorizing a local

government to adopt a specified resolution within a

specified timeframe; providing that, under certain
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261598__

circumstances, a proposed remedy in such resolution

may be approved by the Florida Voting Rights Act

Commission if certain conditions are met; authorizing

a party that sent a notification letter to submit a

claim for reimbursement from the local government

under specified circumstances; providing requirements

for such claim; authorizing the party or local

government to file an action for declaratory judgment

for a clarification of rights under certain

circumstances; authorizing a party to bring a cause of

action for a specified violation under specified

circumstances; requiring certain local governments to

take certain action; requiring the commission to post

notification letters and resolutions on its website

under certain circumstances; authorizing the

commission to adopt certain rules; prohibiting local

governments from asserting specified defenses;

authorizing specified entities to file certain

enforcement actions; prohibiting certain entities from

being compelled to disclose the identity of a member;

providing construction; creating s. 97.22, F.S.;

creating the Florida Voting Rights Act Commission

within the Department of State; providing that the

commission is a separate budget entity and must submit

a budget in accordance with specified provisions;

requiring the commission to have its own staff;

providing that the commission is not subject to

control, supervision, or direction by the Department

of State; providing for the composition of the
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261598__

commission; providing that commissioners serve

staggered terms; requiring that commissioners be

compensated at a specified hourly rate; requiring the

formation of a nominating committee; providing for the

appointment and removal of nominating committee

members; requiring the nominating committee to select

a chair; requiring that commissioners be selected

using a specified process; requiring that upon initial

formation of the commission, a specified number of

commissioners be selected by lot and randomly assigned

term lengths for purposes of achieving staggered

terms; providing for filling vacancies on the

commission; authorizing the commission to take

specified actions in any action or investigation to

enforce specified provisions; authorizing the

commission to hire staff and make expenditures for a

specified purpose; authorizing the commission to adopt

rules; creating s. 97.23, F.S.; requiring the

commission to enter into agreements with one or more

postsecondary educational institutions to create the

Florida Voting and Elections Database and Institute

for specified purposes; requiring the parties to the

agreement to enter into a memorandum of understanding

that includes the process for selecting a director of

the database and institute; requiring the database and

institute to provide a center for specified purposes;

authorizing the database and institute to perform

specified actions; requiring the database and

institute to make election and voting data records for
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261598__

a specified timeframe available to the public at no

cost and to maintain such records in an electronic

format; requiring the database and institute to use

certain methodologies when preparing estimates;

specifying the data and records that must be

maintained; requiring state agencies and local

governments to timely provide any information

requested by the director of the database and

institute; requiring local governments to transmit

specified information to the database and institute

within a certain timeframe; requiring specified

entities to provide data, statistics, and other

information annually to the database and institute;

authorizing specified entities to file enforcement

actions; providing construction; prohibiting certain

entities from being compelled to disclose the identity

of a member for a certain purpose; providing that

enforcement actions may be filed in accordance with

the Florida Rules of Civil Procedure or in a specified

venue; requiring the database and institute to

annually publish a certain report within a specified

timeframe; requiring the database and institute to

provide nonpartisan technical assistance to specified

entities; providing that a rebuttable presumption

exists that data, estimates, or other information from

the database and institute is valid; creating s.

97.24, F.S.; defining terms; requiring the Florida

Voting Rights Act Commission to designate languages

other than English for which language assistance must
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261598__

be provided by a local government, if certain

conditions exist; providing the circumstances under

which the commission must designate languages other

than English for voting and elections; requiring the

commission to publish specified information annually

on its website and distribute such information to

local governments; requiring local governments to

provide language assistance for specified purposes if

the commission makes a certain determination;

requiring that certain materials be provided in such

language; requiring that certain information be given

orally to voters; requiring that translated materials

be of a certain quality, convey a specified intent and

meaning, and may not rely solely on automatic

translation services; requiring that live translation

be used if available; requiring the commission to

establish a specified review process; providing

requirements for such review process; authorizing

specified entities to file enforcement actions;

prohibiting certain entities from being compelled to

disclose the identity of a member for a certain

purpose; providing construction; requiring that

enforcement actions be filed in accordance with the

Florida Rules of Civil Procedure or in a specified

venue; creating s. 97.25, F.S.; providing that the

enactment or implementation of a covered policy by a

covered jurisdiction is subject to preclearance by the

commission; specifying actions by a local government

which are covered policies; requiring that if a
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261598__

covered jurisdiction does not make changes to its

method of election, such method is deemed a covered

policy that must be submitted to the commission;

specifying which local governments are covered

jurisdictions; requiring the commission to determine

and publish annually on its website a list of local

governments that are covered jurisdictions; requiring

a covered jurisdiction, if seeking preclearance, to

submit the covered policy to the commission in

writing; requiring the commission to review the

covered policy and grant or deny preclearance;

providing that the covered jurisdiction bears the

burden of proof in the preclearance process; providing

that the commission may deny preclearance only if it

makes certain determinations; providing that if

preclearance is denied, the covered policy may not be

enacted or implemented; requiring the commission to

provide a written explanation for a denial;

authorizing a covered jurisdiction to immediately

enact or implement a covered policy if granted

preclearance; providing that such determination is not

admissible and may not be considered by a court in a

subsequent action challenging the covered policy;

providing that a covered policy is deemed precleared

and may be implemented or enacted by the covered

jurisdiction if the commission fails to approve or

deny the covered policy within specified timeframes;

requiring the commission to grant or deny preclearance

within specified timeframes; authorizing the
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261598__

commission to invoke a specified number of extensions

of a specified timeframe to determine preclearance;

providing that a denial of preclearance may be

appealed only by the covered jurisdiction in a

specified venue; authorizing specified entities to

enjoin the enactment or implementation of specified

policies and to seek sanctions against covered

jurisdictions in specified circumstances; authorizing

specified entities to file enforcement actions;

prohibiting certain entities from being compelled to

disclose the identity of a member for a certain

purpose; providing construction; specifying that

enforcement actions must be filed in accordance with

the Florida Rules of Civil Procedure or in a specified

venue; requiring the commission to adopt rules;

creating s. 97.26, F.S.; prohibiting a person from

engaging in acts of intimidation, deception, or

obstruction, or any other tactic that has the effect

or will reasonably have the effect, of interfering

with another person’s right to vote; specifying acts

that are deemed violations; providing a rebuttable

presumption; providing an exception; authorizing

specified entities to file a civil action alleging a

violation of specified provisions; prohibiting certain

entities from being compelled to disclose the identity

of a member for a certain purpose; providing

construction; specifying that actions must be filed in

accordance with the Florida Rules of Civil Procedure

or in a specified venue; requiring the court to order
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261598__

specified remedies; creating s. 97.27, F.S.; providing

construction; providing applicability; creating s.

97.28, F.S.; requiring the court to order appropriate

remedies for violations of the act; specifying

appropriate remedies; requiring the court to consider

remedies proposed by specified parties; prohibiting

the court from giving deference to a remedy proposed

by the state or local government; providing that the

court is empowered to require local governments to

implement certain remedies under specified conditions;

requiring the court to grant a temporary injunction or

other preliminary relief requested under specified

conditions; requiring the court to award attorney fees

and litigation costs to the prevailing party in

actions to enforce specified provisions; providing

that a party is deemed to prevail if certain

conditions are met; prohibiting the court from

awarding costs for the prevailing party under

specified circumstances; amending s. 98.045, F.S.;

conforming a cross-reference; amending s. 98.255,

F.S.; revising the standards the Department of State

is required to prescribe by rule for nonpartisan voter

education; requiring that supervisors provide public-

facing voter information in plain language to be

understood by certain persons; amending s. 100.371,

F.S.; providing that a certain notice may be returned

to the supervisor of elections instead of the Office

of Elections Crime and Security; requiring that such

notice contain specified information relating to the
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261598__

supervisor of elections; requiring supervisors to

transmit a copy of such notice to the Division of

Elections; requiring supervisors to notify the

Department of State instead of the Office of Election

Crimes and Security if a specified percentage of

petition forms are deemed invalid; requiring the

department instead of the Office of Election Crimes

and Security to conduct a certain preliminary

investigation; authorizing the Secretary of State

instead of the Office of Election Crimes and Security

to report findings to the statewide prosecutor; making

conforming changes; creating s. 100.51, F.S.;

establishing General Election Day as a paid holiday;

providing that a voter may absent himself or herself

from service or employment at a specific time on

General Election Day and may not be penalized or have

salary or wages deducted for such absence; creating s.

101.016, F.S.; requiring the Division of Elections to

maintain a secure election equipment reserve for

specified purposes; requiring that such reserve

include specified equipment; authorizing the division

to contract with specified entities rather than

physically maintain such reserve; providing contract

requirements; requiring the division to annually

submit a specified report to the Governor and the

Legislature, beginning on a specified date; repealing

s. 101.019, F.S., relating to the prohibition against

ranked-choice voting; amending s. 101.048, F.S.;

providing that a voter may cast a provisional ballot
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261598__

at any precinct in the county in which the voter

claims to be registered; making technical changes;

amending s. 101.572, F.S.; deleting provisions on the

public inspection of ballots and ballot cards and

notification to candidates; amending s. 101.62, F.S.;

providing that a request for a vote-by-mail ballot is

valid until the voter cancels the request; revising

the timeframe during which the supervisor must mail

vote-by-mail ballots before election day; deleting

requirements for a person designated by a voter to

pick up the voter’s vote-by-mail ballot; providing for

extension of deadlines under certain conditions;

amending s. 101.64, F.S.; requiring supervisors of

elections to enclose a postage prepaid mailing

envelope with each vote-by-mail ballot; providing that

vote-by-mail ballot voter certificates may be signed

with the last four digits of the voter’s social

security number; making technical changes; amending s.

101.65, F.S.; revising the instructions that must be

provided with a vote-by-mail ballot; amending s.

101.68, F.S.; requiring supervisors of elections to

compare the signature or last four digits of the

social security number on a voter’s certificate with

the signature or last four digits of the social

security number in the registration books or precinct

register when canvassing a vote-by-mail ballot;

requiring a canvassing board to compare the signature

or last four digits of the social security number on a

voter’s certificate or vote-by-mail ballot cure
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261598__

affidavit with the signature or last four digits of

the social security number in the registration books

or precinct register when canvassing a vote-by-mail

ballot and to determine the validity of such ballot;

deleting the authorization for certain persons to file

a protest against the canvass of a ballot; revising

the instructions on a cure affidavit; amending s.

101.69, F.S.; deleting a provision providing that

specified secure ballot intake stations be used only

during specified timeframes and be monitored by an

employee of the supervisor’s office; requiring that

secure ballot intake stations be monitored by the

supervisor’s office during specified timeframes

instead of continuously monitored in person by an

employee; deleting a provision authorizing a certain

civil penalty; making technical changes; repealing s.

104.0616, F.S., relating to violations regarding vote-

by-mail ballots and voting; amending s. 104.155, F.S.;

deleting a provision prohibiting a person from raising

his or her ignorance regarding citizenship as a

defense to specified violations; amending ss. 104.42

and 921.0022, F.S.; conforming provisions to changes

made by the act; providing effective dates.

WHEREAS, Harry T. and Harriette V. Moore were the first

true civil rights activists of the modern civil rights era in

this state, and

WHEREAS, the Moores, and the organizations they helped

found and lead, were instrumental in registering more than
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261598__

100,000 black voters in this state, and

WHEREAS, the Moores paid the ultimate price for the

freedoms they fought to secure for their community when members

of the Ku Klux Klan bombed their home in Mims on Christmas Day

in 1951, and

WHEREAS, at the time of their death, Florida had the most

registered black voters, outpacing any other state in the South,

and

WHEREAS, the purpose of this act is to encourage maximum

participation of all eligible voters in this state’s electoral

process, and

WHEREAS, electoral systems that deny race, color, or

language minority groups an equal opportunity to elect

candidates of their choice and influence the outcome of an

election are inconsistent with the right to equal treatment

before the law as provided in Articles I and II of the State

Constitution, as well as protections found in the 14th and 15th

Amendments to the United States Constitution, and

WHEREAS, this act expands voting rights granted under the

federal Voting Rights Act of 1965 and reaffirms the well-

established principle of “one person, one vote,” and

WHEREAS, following decisions by the United States Supreme

Court in Shelby County v. Holder and Brnovich v. Democratic

National Committee, the landmark Voting Rights Act of 1965 has

been severely diminished in its ability to protect the freedom

and opportunity of black and brown voters to participate fully

in the political process of our democratic republic, and

WHEREAS, this act builds on the historical work of the

named and nameless Floridians who fought for their right to the
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261598__

elective franchise, NOW, THEREFORE,

Be It Enacted by the Legislature of the State of Florida:

Section 1.

Effective upon becoming a law, subsection (1) of

section 20.10, Florida Statutes, is amended to read:
20.10 Department of State.—There is created a Department of
State.
(1) The head of the Department of State is the Secretary of

State. The Secretary of State shall be elected at the statewide

general election at which the Governor, Lieutenant Governor, and

Cabinet officers are elected, as provided in s. 5, Art. IV of

the State Constitution, and shall serve a term of 4 years

beginning on the first Tuesday after the first Monday in January

of the year following such election appointed by the Governor,

subject to confirmation by the Senate, and shall serve at the

pleasure of the Governor. The Secretary of State shall perform

the functions conferred by the State Constitution upon the

custodian of state records.

Section 2.

Subsection (4) is added to section 20.32,

Florida Statutes, to read:

20.32 Florida Commission on Offender Review.—

(4)(a) For the purpose of assisting a person who has been

disqualified from voting based on a felony conviction, other

than a conviction for murder or a felony sexual offense, in

determining whether he or she has met the requirements under s.

98.0751 to have his or her voting rights restored pursuant to s.

4, Art. VI of the State Constitution, the commission shall

develop and maintain a database that contains for each such
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261598__

person all of the following information:
1. His or her name and any other personal identifying
information.

2. The remaining length of any term of supervision,

including, but not limited to, probation, community control, or

parole, ordered by a court as part of his or her sentence.

3. The remaining amount of any restitution he or she owes

to a victim as ordered by a court as part of his or her

sentence.

4. The remaining amount due of all fines or fees that were

initially ordered by a court as part of his or her sentence or

as a condition of any form of supervision, including, but not

limited to, probation, community control, or parole.

5. The completion status of any other term ordered by a
court as a part of his or her sentence.
6. Any other information needed to determine whether he or

she has met the requirements for restoration of voting rights

under s. 98.0751.

(b) The Department of State, the Department of Corrections,

the clerks of the circuit court, the county comptrollers, and

the Board of Executive Clemency shall provide to the commission

on a monthly basis any information required under paragraph (a).

(c) The Department of Management Services, acting through

the Florida Digital Service, shall provide any technical

assistance necessary for the commission to develop and maintain

the database. The Department of Management Services may adopt

rules governing the provision of such assistance.

(d) By July 1, 2028, the commission shall make the database
available on a public website. The commission shall update the
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261598__

database monthly with the information received from each

governmental entity under paragraph (b). The commission shall

publish on the website clear instructions that a person who has

been disqualified from voting based on a felony conviction,

other than for murder or a felony sexual offense, may follow to

have his or her voting rights restored and to register to vote.

(e) By July 1, 2027, the commission shall provide a

comprehensive plan to the Governor, the President of the Senate,

and the Speaker of the House of Representatives which includes

all of the following:

1. The governmental entities from which and the methods by

which the commission shall collect, centralize, analyze, and

secure the information required to be included in the database.

2. A description of any infrastructure and services,

including, but not limited to, software, hardware, and

information technology services, which may be necessary to

create and maintain the database.

3. The anticipated number of additional employees necessary
for:

a. The commission to develop and maintain the database.

b. A governmental entity to provide the information

required under paragraph (b).
c. The Florida Digital Service to provide the assistance
required under paragraph (c).
4. The anticipated initial cost to develop the database;

the annual cost to maintain the database; and the annual

appropriation required to fund the anticipated costs incurred by

the commission, each governmental entity, and the Florida

Digital Service.
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261598__

5. Any legal authority necessary for the commission to
develop and maintain the database.

6. Draft legislation to implement the comprehensive plan.

(f) Notwithstanding any other law, a person who registers

to vote or who votes in reasonable reliance on information

contained in the database indicating that his or her voting

rights have been restored pursuant to s. 4, Art. VI of the State

Constitution has an affirmative right to register and to vote

and may not be charged with a violation of any criminal law of

this state related to fraudulently voting or registering to

vote.

(g) If an individual was registered to vote before his or

her felony conviction met the requirements under s. 98.0751 to

have his or her voting rights restored pursuant to s. 4, Art. VI

of the State Constitution, the Division of Elections and the

individual’s supervisor of elections shall, as soon as

practicable, complete the necessary steps to automatically

reregister such individual to vote at his or her most recent

address. This process must be noted in the statewide database.

(h) If an individual meets the requirements under s.

98.0751 to have his or her voting rights restored pursuant to s.

4, Art. VI of the State Constitution, but was not registered to

vote before his or her conviction, the Division of Elections and

the individual’s supervisor of elections shall send by United

States mail to the individual’s most current address information

on how to register to vote, including a copy of the current

voter registration form. This process must be noted in the

statewide database.

(i) Within 120 days before a general election until the
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261598__

voter registration deadline for that election, information on

the statewide database must be updated weekly rather than

monthly.

(j) The commission shall adopt rules to implement this
subsection.
Section 3.

Section 97.021, Florida Statutes, is amended to

read:
97.021 Definitions.—For the purposes of this code, except
where the context clearly indicates otherwise, the term:
(1) “Absent elector” means any registered and qualified
voter who casts a vote-by-mail ballot.

(2) “Absent uniformed services voter” means:

(a) A member of a uniformed service on active duty who, by

reason of such active duty, is absent from the place of

residence where the member is otherwise qualified to vote;

(b) A member of the merchant marine who, by reason of

service in the merchant marine, is absent from the place of

residence where the member is otherwise qualified to vote; or

(c) A spouse or dependent of a member referred to in

paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) who, by reason of the active duty

or service of the member, is absent from the place of residence

where the spouse or dependent is otherwise qualified to vote.

(3) “Address of legal residence” means the legal

residential address of the elector and includes all information

necessary to differentiate one residence from another,

including, but not limited to, a distinguishing apartment,

suite, lot, room, or dormitory room number or other identifier.

(4) “Alternative formats” has the meaning ascribed in the

Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, Pub. L. No. 101-336, 42
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261598__

U.S.C. ss. 12101 et seq., including specifically the technical

assistance manuals promulgated thereunder, as amended.

(5) “Automatic tabulating equipment” means an apparatus
that automatically examines, counts, and records votes.

(6) “Ballot” or “official ballot” when used in reference
to:
(a) “Electronic or electromechanical devices” means a

ballot that is voted by the process of electronically

designating, including by touchscreen, or marking with a marking

device for tabulation by automatic tabulating equipment or data

processing equipment.

(b) “Marksense ballots” means that printed sheet of paper,

used in conjunction with an electronic or electromechanical vote

tabulation voting system, containing the names of candidates, or

a statement of proposed constitutional amendments or other

questions or propositions submitted to the electorate at any

election, on which sheet of paper an elector casts his or her

vote.

(7) “Candidate” means any person to whom any one or more of
the following applies:
(a) Any person who seeks to qualify for nomination or
election by means of the petitioning process.
(b) Any person who seeks to qualify for election as a
write-in candidate.

(c) Any person who receives contributions or makes

expenditures, or gives his or her consent for any other person

to receive contributions or make expenditures, with a view to

bringing about his or her nomination or election to, or

retention in, public office.
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261598__

(d) Any person who appoints a treasurer and designates a
primary depository.
(e) Any person who files qualification papers and
subscribes to a candidate’s oath as required by law.

However, this definition does not include any candidate for a

political party executive committee.

(8) “Database and institute” means the Florida Voting and
Elections Database and Institute.

(9)

(10)(9) “Division” means the Division of Elections of the

“Department” means the Department of State.

Department of State.
(11)(10) “Early voting” means casting a ballot prior to

election day at a location designated by the supervisor of

elections and depositing the voted ballot in the tabulation

system.

(12)(11) “Early voting area” means the area designated by

the supervisor of elections at an early voting site at which

early voting activities occur, including, but not limited to,

lines of voters waiting to be processed, the area where voters

check in and are processed, and the area where voters cast their

ballots.

(13)(12) “Early voting site” means those locations

specified in s. 101.657 and the building in which early voting

occurs.

(14)(13) “Election” means any primary election, special

primary election, special election, general election, county

election, municipal election, referendum, or presidential

preference primary election, or any other local or state
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261598__

election.
(15)(14) “Election board” means the clerk and inspectors
appointed to conduct an election.
(16)(15) “Election costs” shall include, but not be limited

to, expenditures for all paper supplies such as envelopes,

instructions to voters, affidavits, reports, ballot cards,

ballot booklets for vote-by-mail voters, postage, notices to

voters; advertisements for registration book closings, testing

of voting equipment, sample ballots, and polling places; forms

used to qualify candidates; polling site rental and equipment

delivery and pickup; data processing time and supplies; election

records retention; and labor costs, including those costs

uniquely associated with vote-by-mail ballot preparation, poll

workers, and election night canvass.

(17) “Election policy or practice” includes any

qualification to be an elector, prerequisite to voting, or

method of election, as well as any law, statute, ordinance,

resolution, charter code or provision, regulation, rule, policy,

practice, procedure, standard, or action with respect to voting

or the administration or schedule of elections.

(18)(16) “Elector” is synonymous with the word “voter” or

“qualified elector or voter,” except where the word is used to

describe presidential electors.

(19) “Federal Voting Rights Act” means the federal Voting
Rights Act of 1965, 52 U.S.C. s. 10301 et seq., as amended.
(20) “FLVRA Commission” means the Florida Voting Rights Act
Commission.
(21)(17) “General election” means an election held on the
first Tuesday after the first Monday in November in the evenPage 24 of 113
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261598__

numbered years, for the purpose of filling national, state,

county, and district offices and for voting on constitutional

amendments not otherwise provided for by law.

(22) “Government enforcement action” means any denial of

administrative or judicial preclearance by the state or the

Federal Government; pending litigation filed by a state or

federal entity; or final judgment or adjudication, consent

decree, or other similar formal action.

(23) “Legislative body” means the commission, council,

school board, or other similar body, by whatever name known, of

local government.

(24)(18) “Lists of registered electors” means names and

associated information of registered electors maintained by the

department in the statewide voter registration system or

generated or derived from the statewide voter registration

system. Lists may be produced in printed or electronic format.

(25) “Local government” means any county, municipality,

school district, special district, supervisor of elections or

other governmental entity that administers elections, or any

other political subdivision in this state in which elections are

conducted.

(26)(19) “Member of the Merchant Marine” means an

individual, other than a member of a uniformed service or an

individual employed, enrolled, or maintained on the Great Lakes

for the inland waterways, who is:

(a) Employed as an officer or crew member of a vessel

documented under the laws of the United States, a vessel owned

by the United States, or a vessel of foreign-flag registry under

charter to or control of the United States; or
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261598__

(b) Enrolled with the United States for employment or

training for employment, or maintained by the United States for

emergency relief service, as an officer or crew member of such

vessel.

(27) “Method of election” means the method by which

candidates are elected to a governmental body of a local

government and includes any at-large, district-based, share-

based, or other method of election, as well as any districting

or redistricting plan used to elect candidates to the

governmental body. Methods of election include:

(a) “At-large method of election” means a method of

election in which candidates are voted on by all voters in the

local government’s jurisdiction, voters are allowed or required

to cast as many votes as there are seats to fill, and voters may

not cast more than one vote for a given candidate.

(b) “District-based method of election” means a method of

election in which the local government is divided into

districts, each district is represented by a single

representative, and a candidate is voted on only by voters

residing in his or her district.

(c) “Other method of election” means a method of election

other than an at-large, district-based, or share-based method of

election, or any combination of methods of election.

(d) “Share-based method of election” means a method of

election in which more than one candidate is to be elected and

different groups of voters may each elect their preferred

candidates to the seats to fill based on their relative share of

the votes cast. Share-based methods of election include, but are

not limited to, the single transferable vote, cumulative voting,
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261598__

limited voting, and party-list or state-list systems.
(28)(20) “Minor political party” is any group as specified

in s. 103.095 which on January 1 preceding a primary election

does not have registered as members 5 percent of the total

registered electors of the state.

(29)(21) “Newspaper of general circulation” means a

newspaper printed in the language most commonly spoken in the

area within which it circulates and which is readily available

for purchase by all inhabitants in the area of circulation, but

does not include a newspaper intended primarily for members of a

particular professional or occupational group, a newspaper the

primary function of which is to carry legal notices, or a

newspaper that is given away primarily to distribute

advertising.

(30)(22) “Nominal value” means having a retail value of $10
or less.
(31)(23) “Nonpartisan office” means an office for which a

candidate is prohibited from campaigning or qualifying for

election or retention in office based on party affiliation.

(32)(24) “Office that serves persons with disabilities”

means any state office that takes applications either in person

or over the telephone from persons with disabilities for any

program, service, or benefit primarily related to their

disabilities.

(33) “Organization” means a person other than an
individual.

(34)(25) “Overseas voter” means:

(a) An absent uniformed services voter who, by reason of

active duty or service, is absent from the United States on the
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261598__

date of the election involved;
(b) A person who resides outside the United States and is

qualified to vote in the last place in which the person was

domiciled before leaving the United States; or

(c) A person who resides outside the United States and, but

for such residence, would be qualified to vote in the last place

in which the person was domiciled before leaving the United

States.

(35)(26) “Overvote” means that the elector marks or

designates more names than there are persons to be elected to an

office or designates more than one answer to a ballot question,

and the tabulator records no vote for the office or question.

(36)(27) “Persons with disabilities” means individuals who

have a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits

one or more major life activities.

(37)(28) “Petition circulator” means an entity or

individual who collects signatures for the purpose of qualifying

a proposed constitutional amendment for ballot placement. The

term does not include a person who collects, delivers, or

otherwise physically possesses no more than 25 signed petition

forms in addition to his or her own signed petition form or a

signed petition form belonging to the person’s spouse, or the

parent, child, grandparent, grandchild, or sibling of the person

or the person’s spouse.

(38)(29) “Polling place” is the building which contains the
polling room where ballots are cast.
(39)(30) “Polling room” means the actual room in which
ballots are cast on election day and during early voting.
(40)(31) “Primary election” means an election held
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261598__

preceding the general election for the purpose of nominating a

party nominee to be voted for in the general election to fill a

national, state, county, or district office.

(41) “Protected class” means a class of citizens who are

members of a race, color, or language minority group, as defined

in this subsection or under the federal Voting Rights Act, as

amended, provided that any subsequent amendment applies only to

the extent that it affords greater protection.

(a) For the purposes of this subsection, the term “language

minority group” means a group based on the best available data

that may include information from the United States Census

Bureau American Community Survey or data of comparable quality

collected by a governmental entity:

1. Of more than 2 percent, but no fewer than 200 citizens

of voting age in a jurisdiction who speak a language other than

English and are limited English proficient individuals; or

2. Of more than 4,000 citizens of voting age in a

jurisdiction who speak a language other than English and are

limited English proficient individuals.

(b) An eligible citizen may not be denied or abridged the

right to vote. Any election standard, practice, or procedure may

not be applied in a manner that discriminates against, or has

the effect of diminishing the ability of, any member of a

protected class to participate equally in the political process.

(42)(32) “Provisional ballot” means a conditional ballot,

the validity of which is determined by the canvassing board.

(43)(33) “Public assistance” means assistance provided

through the food assistance program under the federal

Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program; the Medicaid program;
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261598__

the Special Supplemental Food Program for Women, Infants, and

Children; and the Temporary Cash Assistance Program.

(44)(34) “Public office” means any federal, state, county,

municipal, school, or other district office or position which is

filled by vote of the electors.

(45)(35) “Qualifying educational institution” means any

public or private educational institution receiving state

financial assistance which has, as its primary mission, the

provision of education or training to students who are at least

years of age, provided such institution has more than 200

students enrolled in classes with the institution and provided

that the recognized student government organization has

requested this designation in writing and has filed the request

with the office of the supervisor of elections in the county in

which the institution is located.

(46) “Racially polarized voting” means voting in which the

candidate or electoral choice preferred by protected class

members diverges from the candidate or electoral choice

preferred by voters who are not protected class members.

(47)(36) “Special election” is a special election called

for the purpose of voting on a party nominee to fill a vacancy

in the national, state, county, or district office.

(48)(37) “Special primary election” is a special nomination

election designated by the Governor, called for the purpose of

nominating a party nominee to be voted on in a general or

special election.

(49)(38) “Supervisor” means the supervisor of elections.

(50)(39) “Tactile input device” means a device that

provides information to a voting system by means of a voter
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261598__

touching the device, such as a keyboard, and that complies with

the requirements of s. 101.56062(1)(k) and (l).

(51)(40) “Third-party registration organization” means any

person, entity, or organization soliciting or collecting voter

registration applications. A third-party voter registration

organization does not include:

(a) A person who seeks only to register to vote or collect

voter registration applications from that person’s spouse,

child, or parent; or

(b) A person engaged in registering to vote or collecting

voter registration applications as an employee or agent of the

division, supervisor of elections, Department of Highway Safety

and Motor Vehicles, or a voter registration agency.

(52)(41) “Undervote” means that the elector does not

properly designate any choice for an office or ballot question,

and the tabulator records no vote for the office or question.

(53)(42) “Uniformed services” means the Army, Navy, Air

Force, Marine Corps, Space Force, and Coast Guard, the

commissioned corps of the Public Health Service, and the

commissioned corps of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric

Administration.

(54) “Vote” or “voting” includes any action necessary to

cast a ballot and make such ballot effective in any election or

primary election, which actions include, but are not limited to,

registering to vote, requesting a vote-by-mail ballot, and any

other action required by law as a prerequisite to casting a

ballot and having such ballot counted, canvassed, or certified

properly and included in the appropriate totals of votes cast

with respect to candidates for election or nomination and to
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261598__

referendum questions.

(55)(43) “Voter interface device” means any device that

communicates voting instructions and ballot information to a

voter and allows the voter to select and vote for candidates and

issues. A voter interface device may not be used to tabulate

votes. Any vote tabulation must be based upon a subsequent scan

of the marked marksense ballot or the voter-verifiable paper

output after the voter interface device process has been

completed.

(56)(44) “Voter registration agency” means any office that

provides public assistance, any office that serves persons with

disabilities, any center for independent living, or any public

library.

(57)(45) “Voter registration official” means any supervisor

of elections or individual authorized by the Secretary of State

to accept voter registration applications and execute updates to

the statewide voter registration system.

(58)(46) “Voting booth” or “booth” means that booth or

enclosure wherein an elector casts his or her ballot for

tabulation by an electronic or electromechanical device.

(59)(47) “Voting system” means a method of casting and

processing votes that functions wholly or partly by use of

electromechanical or electronic apparatus or by use of marksense

ballots and includes, but is not limited to, the procedures for

casting and processing votes and the programs, operating

manuals, supplies, printouts, and other software necessary for

the system’s operation.

Terms used in this code which are not defined in this section
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261598__

but are used in the federal Voting Rights Act and interpreted in

relevant case law, including, but not limited to, “political

process” and “prerequisite to voting,” must be construed in a

manner consistent with such usage and interpretation.

Section 4.

Section 97.022, Florida Statutes, is repealed.

Section 5.

Section 97.0291, Florida Statutes, is repealed.

Section 6.

Section 97.0556, Florida Statutes, is created to

read:
97.0556 Same-day voter registration.—A person who meets the

qualifications specified in s. 97.041 to register to vote for

the early voting period, or at his or her polling place on

election day, and who provides the information required under s.

97.052 for the uniform statewide voter registration application,

may register at an early voting site or at his or her polling

place and immediately thereafter cast a ballot.

Section 7.

Section 97.057, Florida Statutes, is amended to

read:
97.057 Voter registration by the Department of Highway
Safety and Motor Vehicles.—
(1)(a) Each of the following serves as an application The

Department of Highway Safety and Motor Vehicles shall provide

the opportunity to preregister to vote, register to vote, or to

update a voter registration record when submitted to the

Department of Highway Safety and Motor Vehicles to each

individual who comes to an office of that department to:

1.(a) An application for, or renewal of, Apply for or renew
a driver license;
2.(b) An application for, or renewal of, Apply for or renew
an identification card pursuant to chapter 322; or
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261598__

3.(c) An application for a change of an address on an
existing driver license or identification card.
(b) Unless the applicant declines to register or

preregister to vote, he or she is deemed to have consented to

the use of the signature from his or her driver license or

identification card application for voter registration purposes.

(2) An application for a driver license or an

identification card must include a voter registration component.

The voter registration component must be approved by the

Department of State and must include all of the following:

(a) The minimum amount of information necessary to prevent

duplicate voter registrations and to preserve the ability of the

department and supervisors of elections to assess the

eligibility of the applicant and administer voter registration

and other provisions of this code.

(b) A statement setting forth voter eligibility
requirements.

(c) An explanation that the applicant is consenting to the

use of his or her signature from the applicant’s driver license

or identification card application for voter registration

purposes. By consenting to the use of his or her signature, the

applicant is deemed to have subscribed to the oaths required by

s. 3, Art. VI of the State Constitution and s. 97.051 and to

have sworn and affirmed that the voter registration information

contained in the application is true under penalty for false

swearing pursuant to s. 104.011.

(d) An option that allows the applicant to choose or update

a party affiliation. An applicant who is initially registering

to vote and does not exercise such option must be sent a notice
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261598__

by the supervisor of elections in accordance with s.

97.053(5)(b).

(e) An option that allows the applicant to decline to

register to vote or preregister to vote. The Department of

Highway Safety and Motor Vehicles shall note any such

declination in its records and forward the declination to the

Department of State. A declination may be used only for voter

registration purposes and is confidential and exempt from public

records requirements as provided in s. 97.0585.

(3) The Department of Highway Safety and Motor Vehicles
shall:
(a) Develop a voter registration component for applications
which meets the requirements set forth in subsection (2).

(b) Electronically transmit the voter registration

component of an applicant’s driver license or identification

card application to the Department of State within 24 hours

after receipt. Upon receipt of the voter registration component,

the Department of State shall provide the information to the

supervisor of the county in which the applicant is registering

or preregistering to vote or updating his or her voter

registration record.

(2) The Department of Highway Safety and Motor Vehicles
shall:

(a) Notify each individual, orally or in writing, that:

1. Information gathered for the completion of a driver

license or identification card application, renewal, or change

of address can be automatically transferred to a voter

registration application;

2. If additional information and a signature are provided,
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261598__

the voter registration application will be completed and sent to

the proper election authority;

3. Information provided can also be used to update a voter

registration record, except that party affiliation will not be

changed unless the individual designates a change in party

affiliation and separately consents to such change in writing;

4. All declinations will remain confidential and may be
used only for voter registration purposes; and
5. The particular driver license office in which the person

applies to register to vote or updates a voter registration

record will remain confidential and may be used only for voter

registration purposes.

(b) Require a driver license examiner to inquire orally or,

if the applicant is hearing impaired, inquire in writing whether

the applicant wishes to register to vote or update a voter

registration record during the completion of a driver license or

identification card application, renewal, or change of address.

1. If the applicant chooses to register to vote or to

update a voter registration record:
a. All applicable information received by the Department of

Highway Safety and Motor Vehicles in the course of filling out

the forms necessary under subsection (1) must be transferred to

a voter registration application.

b. The additional necessary information must be obtained by

the driver license examiner and must not duplicate any

information already obtained while completing the forms required

under subsection (1).

c. A voter registration application with all of the
applicant’s voter registration information required to establish
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261598__

the applicant’s eligibility pursuant to s. 97.041 must be

presented to the applicant to review and verify the voter

registration information received and provide an electronic

signature affirming the accuracy of the information provided.

d. The voter registration application may not be used to

change the party affiliation of the applicant unless the

applicant designates a change in party affiliation and provides

a separate signature consenting to the party affiliation change.

e. After verifying the voter registration information and

providing his or her electronic signature, the applicant must be

provided with a printed receipt that includes such information

and documents any change in party affiliation.

2. If the applicant declines to register to vote, update

the applicant’s voter registration record, or change the

applicant’s address by either orally declining or by failing to

sign the voter registration application, the Department of

Highway Safety and Motor Vehicles must note such declination on

its records and shall forward the declination to the statewide

voter registration system.

(3) For the purpose of this section, the Department of

Highway Safety and Motor Vehicles, with the approval of the

Department of State, shall prescribe:

(a) A voter registration application that is the same in

content, format, and size as the uniform statewide voter

registration application prescribed under s. 97.052; and

(b) A form that will inform applicants under subsection (1)
of the information contained in paragraph (2)(a).
(4) The Department of Highway Safety and Motor Vehicles
must electronically transmit completed voter registration
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261598__

applications within 24 hours after receipt to the statewide

voter registration system. Completed paper voter registration

applications received by the Department of Highway Safety and

Motor Vehicles shall be forwarded within 5 days after receipt to

the supervisor of the county where the office that processed or

received that application is located.

(5) The Department of Highway Safety and Motor Vehicles

must send, with each driver license renewal extension

application authorized pursuant to s. 322.18(8), a uniform

statewide voter registration application, the voter registration

application prescribed under paragraph (3)(a), or a voter

registration application developed especially for the purposes

of this subsection by the Department of Highway Safety and Motor

Vehicles, with the approval of the Department of State, which

must meet the requirements of s. 97.052.

(4)(6) A person providing voter registration services for a
driver license office may not:

(a) Make any change to an applicant’s party affiliation

unless the applicant provides a separate signature consenting to

the party affiliation change or discuss or Seek to influence an

applicant’s political preference or party registration;

(b) Display any political preference or party allegiance;

(c) Make any statement to an applicant or take any action

the purpose or effect of which is to discourage the applicant

from registering to vote; or

(d) Disclose any applicant’s voter registration information
except as needed for the administration of voter registration.
(5)(7) The Department of Highway Safety and Motor Vehicles
shall collect data determined necessary by the Department of
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261598__

State for program evaluation and reporting to the Election

Assistance Commission pursuant to federal law.

(6)(8) The Department of Highway Safety and Motor Vehicles

shall must ensure that all voter registration services provided

by driver license offices are in compliance with all state and

federal laws the Voting Rights Act of 1965.

(7)(9) The Department of Highway Safety and Motor Vehicles

shall retain complete records of voter registration information

received, processed, and submitted to the Department of State

statewide voter registration system by the Department of Highway

Safety and Motor Vehicles. The retention of such These records

is shall be for the explicit purpose of supporting audit and

accounting controls established to ensure accurate and complete

electronic transmission of records between the Department of

State statewide voter registration system and the Department of

Highway Safety and Motor Vehicles.

(8)(10) The Department of State shall provide the

Department of Highway Safety and Motor Vehicles with an

electronic database of street addresses valid for use as the

address of legal residence as required in s. 97.053(5). The

Department of Highway Safety and Motor Vehicles shall compare

the address provided by the applicant against the database of

valid street addresses. If the address provided by the applicant

does not match a valid street address in the database, the

applicant will be asked to verify the address provided. The

Department of Highway Safety and Motor Vehicles may shall not

reject any application for voter registration for which a valid

match cannot be made.

(9)(11) The Department of Highway Safety and Motor Vehicles
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261598__

shall enter into an agreement with the Department of State to

match information in the statewide voter registration system

with information in the database of the Department of Highway

Safety and Motor Vehicles to the extent required to verify the

accuracy of the driver license number, Florida identification

number, or last four digits of the social security number

provided on applications for voter registration as required in

s. 97.053.

(10)(12) The Department of Highway Safety and Motor

Vehicles shall enter into an agreement with the Commissioner of

Social Security as required by the Help America Vote Act of 2002

to verify the last four digits of the social security number

provided in applications for voter registration as required in

s. 97.053.

(11)(13) The Department of Highway Safety and Motor

Vehicles shall must assist the Department of State in regularly

identifying changes in residence address on the driver license

or identification card of a voter. The Department of State shall

must report each such change to the appropriate supervisor of

elections who must change the voter’s registration records in

accordance with s. 98.065(4).

(12) The Department of Highway Safety and Motor Vehicles

shall notify the Department of State as soon as practicable, but

no later than 30 days, after any change to a voter’s driver

license number or identification card number. The Department of

State shall transmit each such change to the appropriate

supervisor of elections, who shall update the voter’s

registration records accordingly and provide notice of the

change to the registrant by mail. Under no circumstances may a
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261598__

change to a voter’s driver license or identification card number

be used as the sole basis to prevent an otherwise eligible

citizen from casting his or her ballot.

(14) The Department of Highway Safety and Motor Vehicles

shall ensure that information technology processes and updates

do not alter an applicant’s party affiliation without the

written consent of the applicant.

Section 8.

Section 97.0575, Florida Statutes, is amended to

read:

97.0575 Third-party voter registration organizations.—

(1) Before engaging in any voter registration activities, a

third-party voter registration organization must register and

provide to the division, in an electronic format, the following

information:

(a) The names of the officers of the organization and the
name and permanent address of the organization.
(b) The name and address of the organization’s registered
agent in this the state.

(c) The names, permanent addresses, and temporary

addresses, if any, of each registration agent who registers

registering persons to vote in this state for compensation on

behalf of the organization. This paragraph does not apply to

persons who only solicit applications and do not collect or

handle voter registration applications.

(d) Beginning November 6, 2024, the specific general

election cycle for which the third-party voter registration

organization is registering persons to vote.

(e) An affirmation that each person collecting or handling
voter registration applications on behalf of the third-party
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261598__

voter registration organization has not been convicted of a

felony violation of the Election Code, a felony violation of an

offense specified in s. 825.103, a felony offense specified in

s. 98.0751(2)(b) or (c), or a felony offense specified in

chapter 817, chapter 831, or chapter 837. A third-party voter

registration organization is liable for a fine in the amount of

$50,000 for each such person who has been convicted of a felony

violation of the Election Code, a felony violation of an offense

specified in s. 825.103, a felony offense specified in s.

98.0751(2)(b) or (c), or a felony offense specified in chapter

817, chapter 831, or chapter 837 who is collecting or handling

voter registration applications on behalf of the third-party

voter registration organization.

(f) An affirmation that each person collecting or handling

voter registration applications on behalf of the third-party

voter registration organization is a citizen of the United

States of America. A third-party voter registration organization

is liable for a fine in the amount of $50,000 for each such

person who is not a citizen and is collecting or handling voter

registration applications on behalf of the third-party voter

registration organization.

(2) Beginning November 6, 2024, the registration of a

third-party voter registration organization automatically

expires at the conclusion of the specific general election cycle

for which the third-party voter registration organization is

registered.

(3) The division or the supervisor of elections shall make

voter registration forms available to third-party voter

registration organizations. All such forms must contain
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261598__

information identifying the organization to which the forms are

provided. The division shall maintain a database of all third-

party voter registration organizations and the voter

registration forms assigned to the third-party voter

registration organization. Each supervisor of elections shall

provide to the division information on voter registration forms

assigned to and received from third-party voter registration

organizations. The information must be provided in a format and

at times as required by the division by rule. The division shall

update information on third-party voter registrations daily and

make the information publicly available.

(4) A third-party voter registration organization that

collects voter registration applications shall provide a receipt

to an applicant upon accepting possession of his or her

application. The division shall adopt by rule a uniform format

for the receipt by October 1, 2023. The format must include, but

need not be limited to, the name of the applicant, the date the

application is received, the name of the third-party voter

registration organization, the name of the registration agent,

the applicant’s political party affiliation, and the county in

which the applicant resides.

(3)(a)(5)(a)

A third-party voter registration organization

that collects voter registration applications serves as a

fiduciary to the applicant and shall ensure that any voter

registration application entrusted to the organization,

irrespective of party affiliation, race, ethnicity, or gender,

is promptly delivered to the division or the supervisor of

elections in the county in which the applicant resides within 14

days after the application is completed by the applicant, but
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261598__

not after registration closes for the next ensuing election. If

a voter registration application collected by any third-party

voter registration organization is not promptly delivered to the

division or supervisor of elections in the county in which the

applicant resides, the third-party voter registration

organization is liable for the following fines:

1. A fine in the amount of $50 per each day late, up to

$2,500, for each application received by the division or the

supervisor of elections in the county in which the applicant

resides more than 14 10 days after the applicant delivered the

completed voter registration application to the third-party

voter registration organization, if the organization or any

person, entity, or agent acting on its behalf acted willfully. A

fine in the amount of $2,500 for each application received if

the third-party voter registration organization or person,

entity, or agency acting on its behalf acted willfully.

2. A fine in the amount of $100 per each day late, up to

$5,000, for each application collected by a third-party voter

registration organization, or any person, entity, or agent

acting on its behalf, before book closing for any given election

for federal or state office and received by the division or the

supervisor of elections in the county in which the applicant

resides after the book-closing deadline for such election. A

fine in the amount of $5,000 for each application received if

the third-party voter registration organization or any person,

entity, or agency acting on its behalf acted willfully.

3. A fine in the amount of $500 for each application

collected by a third-party voter registration organization, or

any person, entity, or agent acting on its behalf, which is not
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261598__

submitted to the division or supervisor of elections in the

county in which the applicant resides. A fine in the amount of

$5,000 for any application not submitted if the third-party

voter registration organization or person, entity, or agency

acting on its behalf acted willfully.

The aggregate fine that which may be assessed pursuant to this

paragraph against a third-party voter registration organization,

including affiliate organizations, for violations committed in a

calendar year is $1,000 $250,000.

(b) A showing by the third-party voter registration

organization that the failure to deliver the voter registration

application within the required timeframe is based upon force

majeure or impossibility of performance shall be an affirmative

defense to a violation of this subsection. The secretary may

waive the fines described in this subsection upon a showing that

the failure to deliver the voter registration application

promptly is based upon force majeure or impossibility of

performance.

(c) All fines collected under this section must be remitted

by the department to the supervisor of elections of the county

in which the violation occurred. The supervisor shall expend

monies collected from such fines exclusively for nonpartisan

voter participation initiatives and voter registration outreach,

including voter education, community registration drives, and to

offset costs associated with the prepayment of postage on vote-

by-mail return envelopes, provided that all vote-by-mail ballots

for the election include prepaid postage.

(6) If a person collecting voter registration applications
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261598__

on behalf of a third-party voter registration organization

alters the voter registration application of any other person,

without the other person’s knowledge and consent, in violation

of s. 104.012(4) and is subsequently convicted of such offense,

the applicable third-party voter registration organization is

liable for a fine in the amount of $5,000 for each application

altered.

(7) If a person collecting voter registration applications

on behalf of a third-party voter registration organization

copies a voter’s application or retains a voter’s personal

information, such as the voter’s Florida driver license number,

Florida identification card number, social security number, or

signature, for any reason other than to provide such application

or information to the third-party voter registration

organization in compliance with this section, the person commits

a felony of the third degree, punishable as provided in s.

775.082, s. 775.083, or s. 775.084.

(4)(8) If the Secretary of State reasonably believes that a

person has committed a violation of this section, the secretary

may refer the matter to the Attorney General for enforcement.

The Attorney General may institute a civil action for a

violation of this section or to prevent a violation of this

section. An action for relief may include a permanent or

temporary injunction, a restraining order, or any other

appropriate order.

(9) The division shall adopt by rule a form to elicit

specific information concerning the facts and circumstances from

a person who claims to have been registered to vote by a third-

party voter registration organization but who does not appear as
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261598__

an active voter on the voter registration rolls. The division

shall also adopt rules to ensure the integrity of the

registration process, including controls to ensure that all

completed forms are promptly delivered to the division or a

supervisor in the county in which the applicant resides.

(5)(10) The date on which an applicant signs a voter

registration application is presumed to be the date on which the

third-party voter registration organization received or

collected the voter registration application.

(11) A third-party voter registration organization may not

mail or otherwise provide a voter registration application upon

which any information about an applicant has been filled in

before it is provided to the applicant. A third-party voter

registration organization that violates this section is liable

for a fine in the amount of $50 for each such application.

(12) The requirements of this section are retroactive for

any third-party voter registration organization registered with

the department as of July 1, 2023, and must be complied with

within 90 days after the department provides notice to the

third-party voter registration organization of the requirements

contained in this section. Failure of the third-party voter

registration organization to comply with the requirements within

days after receipt of the notice shall automatically result

in the cancellation of the third-party voter registration

organization’s registration.

Section 9.

Part III of chapter 97, Florida Statutes,

consisting of sections 97.21-97.28, Florida Statutes, is created

and entitled “Florida Voting Rights Act.”

Section 10.

Section 97.21, Florida Statutes, is created to

CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261598__

read:

97.21 Prohibitions on voter suppression and vote dilution.—

(1) PROHIBITING VOTER SUPPRESSION.—

(a) A local government, state agency, or state official may

not implement, impose, or enforce any election policy or

practice, or take any other action or fail to take any action,

which results in, will result in, or is intended to result in

any of the following:

1. A material disparity in voter participation, access to

voting opportunities, or the opportunity or ability to

participate in the political process between protected class

members and other members of the electorate.

2. Based on the totality of the circumstances, an

impairment of the equal opportunity or ability of protected

class members to participate in any stage of the political

process.

(b) It is not a violation of paragraph (a) if a local

government, state agency, or state official demonstrates by

clear and convincing evidence that:

1. The election policy or practice is necessary, beyond

consideration of administrative convenience, generalized cost

savings, or speculative concerns, to further significantly an

important and particularized governmental interest; and

2. There is no reasonable alternative election policy or

practice that results in a smaller disparity between protected

class members and other members of the electorate.

(c) Notwithstanding paragraph (b), a violation always
exists under paragraph (a) if:
1. The local government, state agency, or state official
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261598__

takes action intended to result in a material disparity; or

2. The material disparity results from:

a. The closure, relocation, or consolidation of, or failure

to provide, one or more polling places, early voting sites, or

secure ballot intake stations; or the reassignment of voters to

precincts or polling places or of precincts to polling places;

b. The local government’s selection of or change to the
time or date of an election;
c. The local government conducting elections on dates that
do not align with federal or state elections;

d. The date the local government selects for a special

election, and there exists an alternate date in a reasonable

timeframe in which the disparity would be materially less

significant; or

e. The failure to schedule a special election as soon as

practicable, but in no event later than 14 days after the

occurrence of the vacancy, if more than 12 months remain in the

term of office and protected class members are generally able to

elect candidates of their choice.

(2) PROHIBITING VOTE DILUTION.—

(a) A local government may not employ an at-large method of

election, a district-based method of election, a share-based

method of election, or any other method of election for any

office which has the effect, will likely have the effect, or is

motivated in part by the intent of diluting the vote of

protected class members.

(b) To establish a violation under paragraph (a), it must
be established that:
1.a. Elections in the local government exhibit racially
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261598__

polarized voting resulting in an impairment of the equal

opportunity or ability of protected class members to nominate or

elect candidates of their choice; or

b. Based on the totality of the circumstances, the equal

opportunity or ability of protected class members to nominate or

elect candidates of their choice is impaired; and

2. Another method of election or changes to the existing

method of election which could be constitutionally adopted or

ordered under s. 97.28 would likely mitigate the impairment. For

the purpose of satisfying such requirement, it is not necessary

for the total number or share of protected class members to

exceed any numerical threshold in any district or in the local

government as a whole.

(3) GUIDELINES AND RELEVANT CIRCUMSTANCES FOR EVALUATING
VOTER SUPPRESSION AND VOTE DILUTION.—
(a)1. To evaluate the totality of circumstances under

subparagraph (1)(a)2. or sub-subparagraph (2)(b)1.b., the

following factors may be relevant:

a. The history of discrimination;

b. The extent to which the protected class members have

been elected to office;
c. The use of any election policy or practice that may

enhance the dilutive effective of a method of election in the

local government.

d. The extent to which protected class members or

candidates experienced any history of unequal access to

election-administration or campaign finance processes that

determine which candidates will receive access to the ballot or

receive financial or other support in a given election for an
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261598__

office of the local government;
e. The extent to which protected class members have

historically made expenditures as defined in s. 106.011 at lower

rates than other voters;

f. The extent to which protected class members vote at
lower rates than other voters;
g. The extent to which protected class members are

disadvantaged or otherwise bear the effects of public or private

discrimination in areas that may hinder their ability to

participate effectively in any stage of the political process,

such as education, employment, health, criminal justice,

housing, transportation, land use, or environmental protection;

h. The use of overt or subtle racial appeals in political

campaigns by governmental officials or in connection with the

adoption or maintenance of the election policy or practice;

i. The extent to which candidates face hostility or

barriers while campaigning due to their membership in a

protected class;

j

The lack of responsiveness by elected officials to the

particular needs of protected class members or a community of

protected class members;

k. Whether the election policy or practice was designed to

advance, and does materially advance, a valid and substantial

state interest; and

l. Other factors deemed relevant.

2. A set number or combination of the factors in

subparagraph 1. is not required to determine that a violation

occurred.

3. Evidence of these factors is most probative if it
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261598__

relates to the local government in which the alleged violation

occurred, but still holds probative value if it relates to the

geographic region in which the local government is located or to

this state.

(b) To determine whether elections in the local government

exhibit racially polarized voting under sub-subparagraph

(2)(b)1.a.:

1. Racially polarized voting must be assessed based on

relevant election results, which may include, but are not

limited to, elections for offices of the local government;

elections held by the local government for other offices, such

as state or federal offices; ballot measures; and other

electoral choices that bear on the rights and privileges of the

protected class.

a. A set number or combination of elections may not be

required to establish the existence of racially polarized

voting.

b. Evidence of nonpolarized voting in elections for offices

outside the local government may not preclude a finding of

racially polarized voting based on elections for offices of the

local government.

c. Nonstatistical or nonquantitative evidence may not

preclude a finding of racially polarized voting based on

statistical or quantitative evidence.

d. Low turnout or registration rates among protected class

members may not preclude a finding of racially polarized voting.

2. Racially polarized voting may be assessed based only on

the combined electoral preferences of members of a protected

class or classes. There is no requirement that the electoral
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261598__

preferences of each protected class or any subgroup within a

protected class be separately polarized from those of other

voters.

3. The causes of or reasons for racially polarized voting,

including partisan explanations or discriminatory intent, are

not relevant.

(c)1. If evaluating whether a violation of subsection (1)

or subsection (2) is present, the following circumstances are

never relevant to such a violation:

a. The total number or share of protected class members on

whom the election policy or practice does not impose a material

burden;

b. The degree to which the election policy or practice has

a long pedigree or was in widespread use at some earlier date;

c. The use of an identical or similar election policy or

practice in other jurisdictions; and
d. The availability of forms of voting unimpacted by the
election policy or practice.
2. A state interest in preventing voter fraud or bolstering

voter confidence in the integrity of elections is not relevant

to an evaluation of whether a violation of subsection (1) or

subsection (2) occurred unless there is substantial evidence of

a number of instances that criminal activity by individual

electors has occurred in the local government and the connection

between the election policy or practice and a state interest in

preventing voter fraud or bolstering voter confidence in the

integrity of elections is supported by substantial evidence.

3. Evidence concerning the intent of electors, elected

officials, or public officials to discriminate against protected
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261598__

class members is not required under subsections (1) and (2).

4. Whether protected class members typically elect

candidates of their choice to the governmental body of a local

government in approximate proportion to their total number or

share of the population may be relevant under subsection (2).

(4) Before filing an action against a local government

pursuant to this section, a prospective plaintiff must send, by

certified mail, return receipt requested, a notification letter

to the local government asserting that the local government may

be in violation of the provisions of this act. Such letter must

be referred to as an “FLVRA notification letter.”

(a) Except as noted in paragraph (e), a party may not file

an action against a local government pursuant to this section

earlier than 50 days after sending an FLVRA notification letter

to the local government.

(b) Before receiving an FLVRA notification letter, or not

later than 50 days after any FLVRA notification letter is sent

to a local government, a local government may adopt a resolution

that must be referred to as an “FLVRA resolution” and that does

all of the following:

1. Identifies a potential violation of this section by the
local government.

2. Identifies a specific remedy to the potential violation.

3. Affirms the local government’s intent to enact and

implement the remedy for the potential violation.
4. Sets forth specific measures the local government will
take to enact and implement the remedy.
5. Provides a schedule for the enactment and implementation
of the remedy.
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261598__

(c) Except as noted in paragraph (e), a party that has sent

an FLVRA notification letter may not file an action pursuant to

this section earlier than 90 days after the adoption of an FLVRA

resolution.

(d) If the remedy identified in an FLVRA resolution is

barred by state or local law, or a legislative body of a local

government lacks authority under state or local law to enact or

implement a remedy identified in an FLVRA resolution within 90

days after the adoption of such resolution, or if the local

government is a covered jurisdiction under s. 97.25, the local

government may nonetheless enact and implement the remedy

identified in such resolution upon approval of the FLVRA

Commission, which may provide approval only if it finds that the

local government may be in violation of this act, the proposed

remedy would address a potential violation, and implementation

of the proposed remedy is feasible. The approval of a remedy by

the FLVRA Commission does not bar an action to challenge the

remedy.

(e) If, pursuant to this subsection, a local government

enacts or implements a remedy or the FLVRA Commission approves a

proposed remedy, a party that sent an FLVRA notification letter

may submit a claim for reimbursement from the local government

for the costs associated with producing and sending such

notification letter. The party must submit the claim in writing

and substantiate the claim with financial documentation,

including a detailed invoice for any demography services or

analysis of voting patterns in the local government. If a party

and local government fail to agree to a reimbursement amount,

either the party or local government may file an action for a
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261598__

declaratory judgment for a clarification of rights.
(f) Notwithstanding this subsection, a party may bring a

cause of action for a violation of this section under any of the

following circumstances:

1. The action is commenced within 1 year after the adoption

of a challenged method of election, ordinance, resolution, rule,

policy, standard, regulation, procedure, or law.

2. The prospect of obtaining relief under this section
would be futile.
3. Another party has submitted a notification letter under

this subsection alleging a substantially similar violation and

that party is eligible to bring a cause of action under this

subsection.

4. Following the party’s submission of an FLVRA

notification letter, the local government has adopted an FLVRA

resolution that identifies a remedy that would not cure the

violation identified in the notification letter.

5. The party is seeking preliminary relief with respect to
an upcoming election in accordance with s. 97.28.
(g) Any local government that receives an FLVRA

notification letter or adopts an FLVRA resolution must provide a

copy to the FLVRA Commission within 1 day after receipt or

adoption. The FLVRA Commission shall promptly, but not later

than 1 business day after receipt, post all FLVRA notification

letters and FLVRA resolutions on its website. The FLVRA

Commission may adopt rules identifying other materials and

information that must be provided to the FLVRA Commission by

local governments, as well as procedures for transmittal of

materials and information from local governments to the FLVRA
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261598__

Commission.

(5) A local government may not assert the doctrine of

laches as a defense to claims brought under this section. A

local government may not assert that plaintiffs have failed to

comply with any notice, exhaustion, or other procedural

requirements under state law, other than the requirements in

this section, as a defense to claims brought under this section.

(6) An individual or entity aggrieved by a violation of

this section, the Attorney General, or the FLVRA Commission may

file an action alleging a violation of this section to enforce

compliance with this section. An entity aggrieved by a violation

of this section includes, but is not limited to, any entity

whose membership includes individuals aggrieved by a violation

of this section or whose mission would be frustrated by a

violation of this section, including, but not limited to, an

entity that would expend or divest resources to fulfill its

mission as a result of such violation or must expend greater

resources or efforts to advocate before an elected body that is

less responsive to the entity or its members due to the alleged

violation. An entity may not be compelled to disclose the

identity of any specific member to pursue a claim on behalf of

its members. This subsection must be liberally construed to

confer standing as broadly as the State Constitution allows.

Such a claim may be filed pursuant to the Florida Rules of Civil

Procedure or in the Second Judicial Circuit of Florida. Members

of two or more protected classes that are politically cohesive

in a local government may jointly file an action. In an action

involving a districting plan, any individual who resides in the

defendant jurisdiction and is a member of the affected class or
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261598__

classes, whether he or she resides in any particular district,

may challenge the districting plan as a whole.

Section 11.

Section 97.22, Florida Statutes, is created to

read:

97.22 Florida Voting Rights Act Commission.—

(1) There is created the Florida Voting Rights Act (FLVRA)

Commission within the Department of State. The FLVRA Commission

is a separate budget entity, as provided in the General

Appropriations Act, and shall prepare and submit a budget

request in accordance with chapter 216. The commission is

responsible for administering the Florida Voting Rights Act. The

commission shall have its own staff, including management,

research, and enforcement personnel, and is not subject to

control, supervision, or direction by the Department of State.

(2)(a) The FLVRA Commission shall be composed of five

commissioners, each of whom shall serve a staggered 5-year term.

Commissioners must be compensated for their actual time spent on

the commission’s business at an hourly rate equivalent to the

rate of an assistant attorney general.

1. A nominating committee shall identify qualified

candidates to serve as commissioners. The nominating committee

shall be composed of nominating organizations that are selected

as follows:

a. Organizations may apply to the Secretary of State to be

certified as organizational nominators for 5-year terms, after

which the organizations may be recertified. The Secretary of

State must certify any organization that applies to be an

organizational nominator if it meets all of the following

qualifications:
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261598__

(I) Has demonstrated commitment to the purposes of this act

and to securing the voting rights of protected class members,

such as referencing such class members in the organization’s

mission statement, involvement in numerous voting rights cases

brought in this state on behalf of members of protected classes,

or advocacy in support of this act.

(II) Is registered as a nonprofit corporation with the
Secretary of State.

(III) Has been in continuous operation as a nonprofit

organization under s. 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code or

as a nonprofit corporation registered with the Secretary of

State for at least 10 years.

b. If the Secretary of State fails to timely certify an

organization that satisfies the qualifications specified in sub-

subparagraph a. following the organization’s application as an

organizational nominator, the organization may file an action

against the Secretary of State for a declaratory judgment

certifying the organization as an organizational nominator.

2. An organizational nominator may be removed for cause by
a majority vote of all fellow nominators.

3. If there are fewer than 16 organizational nominators

certified by the Secretary of State, the nominating committee

must be composed of all such organizational nominators. If there

are 16 or more organizational nominators certified by the

Secretary of State, the nominating committee must be composed of

organizational nominators randomly selected from all the

nominators by lot on an annual basis.

4. The nominating committee shall select its own chair to
preside over meetings and votes.
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261598__

(b) Commissioners shall be selected as follows:

1. The nominating committee shall solicit applications from

individuals to serve on the FLVRA Commission from across this

state. A commissioner must satisfy all of the following

criteria:

a. Is a resident of this state.

b. Has experience representing or advocating on behalf of

members of protected classes.
c. Has not served in elected office within the preceding 5
years.
d. Is not currently serving in any governmental office or
holding any political party office.
2. The nominating committee shall maintain a qualified

candidate pool composed of 30 candidates to serve on the FLVRA

Commission. Individuals may be added to the qualified applicant

pool only upon a vote of three-fifths of the nominating

committee.

3. All members of the FLVRA Commission must be randomly

selected from the qualified candidate pool. Upon the initial

formation of the FLVRA Commission, five commissioners must be

selected by lot from the qualified candidate pool and randomly

assigned to term lengths of 5 years, 4 years, 3 years, 2 years,

and 1 year. At least 60 days in advance of the conclusion of

each commissioner’s term, a new commissioner must be randomly

selected by lot from the qualified candidate pool to serve a 5-

year term upon the conclusion of the incumbent commissioner’s

term. If a vacancy occurs, a new commissioner must be randomly

selected by lot from the qualified candidate pool within 30 days

after the vacancy occurring to complete the vacated term.
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261598__

(3) In any action or investigation to enforce this section,

the FLVRA Commission may subpoena witnesses; administer oaths;

examine individuals under oath; determine material facts; and

compel the production of records, books, papers, contracts, and

other documents in accordance with the Florida Rules of Civil

Procedure.

(4) The FLVRA Commission may hire any staff and make any
expenditure necessary to fulfill its responsibilities.
(5) The FLVRA Commission may adopt rules to administer and
enforce this part.
Section 12.

Section 97.23, Florida Statutes, is created to

read:

97.23 Statewide database and institute.—

(1) The FLVRA Commission shall enter into an agreement with

one or more postsecondary educational institutions in this state

to create the Florida Voting and Elections Database and

Institute to maintain and administer a central repository of

elections and voting data available to the public from all local

governments in this state, and to foster, pursue, and sponsor

research on existing laws and best practices in voting and

elections. The parties to that agreement shall enter into a

memorandum of understanding that includes the process for

selecting the director of the database and institute.

(2) The database and institute shall provide a center for

research, training, and information on voting systems and

election administration. The database and institute may do any

of the following:

(a) Conduct noncredit classes and classes for credit.

(b) Organize interdisciplinary groups of scholars to
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261598__

research voting and elections in this state.

(c) Conduct seminars involving voting and elections.

(d) Establish a nonpartisan centralized database in order

to collect, archive, and make publicly available, at no cost,

accessible data pertaining to elections, voter registration, and

ballot access in this state.

(e) Assist in the dissemination of election data to the
public.
(f) Publish books and periodicals on voting and elections
in this state.

(g) Provide nonpartisan technical assistance to local

governments, scholars, and the general public seeking to use the

resources of the database and institute.

(3) The database and institute shall make available, and

maintain in an electronic format, all relevant election and

voting data and records for at least the previous 12-year

period. The data, information, and estimates maintained by the

database and institute must be posted online and made available

to the public at no cost. Maps, polling places, and vote-by-mail

ballot secure intake stations must be made available in a

geospatial file format. The database and institute shall prepare

all estimates made under this section by applying the most

advanced and validated peer-reviewed methodologies available.

Data and records that must be maintained include, but are not

limited to, all of the following:

(a) Estimates of the total population, voting age

population, and citizen voting age population by racial, color,

or language minority group and disability status, broken down by

precinct level on a year-by-year basis, for every local
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261598__

government in this state, based on data from the United States

Census Bureau or the American Community Survey or data of

comparable quality collected by a public office.

(b) Election results at the precinct level for every

federal, state, and local election held in every local

government in this state.

(c) Contemporaneous voter registration lists, voter history

files, polling places, and vote-by-mail secure ballot intake

stations for every election in every local government in this

state.

(d) Contemporaneous maps or other documentation of the
configuration of precincts.
(e) Lists of polling places, including, but not limited to,

lists of precincts assigned to each polling place, if

applicable.

(f) Adopted district or redistricting plans for every
election in every local government in this state.
(g) A current record, updated monthly, of persons eligible

to register to vote who have a prior criminal conviction and

whose eligibility has been restored in compliance with s.

98.0751.

(h) Any other data that the director of the database and

institute considers necessary to maintain in furtherance of the

purposes of the database and institute.

(4) All state agencies and local governments shall timely

provide the director of the database and institute with any

information requested by the director. No later than 90 days

after an election, each local government shall transmit to the

database and institute copies of all of the following:
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261598__

(a) Election results at the precinct level.

(b) Contemporaneous voter registration lists.

(c) Voter history files.

(d) Maps, descriptions, and shapefiles for election

districts.
(e) Lists of polling places, shapefiles, or descriptions of
the precincts assigned to each polling place.
(f) Any other data as requested by the database and
institute.

(5) Any state entity identified by the director of the

database and institute as possessing data, statistics, or other

information required by the database and institute to carry out

its duties and responsibilities shall provide such data,

statistics, or information annually to the database and

institute at the request of the director.

(6) If a state agency or local government fails to provide

any information to the database and institute as required by

this section, the director of the database and institute, the

Attorney General, or the FLVRA Commission may file an action to

enforce compliance with this section. An entity aggrieved by a

violation of this section includes, but is not limited to, any

entity whose membership includes individuals aggrieved by this

section or whose mission would be frustrated by a violation of

this section, including, but not limited to, an entity that

would expend or divest resources to fulfill its mission as a

result of such violation or must expend greater resources or

efforts to advocate before an elected body that is less

responsive to the entity or its members due to the alleged

violation. An entity may not be compelled to disclose the
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261598__

identity of any specific member to pursue a claim on behalf of

its members. This section must be liberally construed to confer

standing as broadly as the State Constitution allows. Such claim

may be filed pursuant to the Florida Rules of Civil Procedure or

in the Second Judicial Circuit of Florida.

(7) No later than 90 days after the end of each state

fiscal year, the database and institute shall publish a report

on the priorities and finances of the database and institute.

(8) The database and institute shall provide nonpartisan

technical assistance to local governments, researchers, and

members of the public seeking to use the resources of the

database.

(9) There is a rebuttable presumption that the data,

estimates, or other information maintained by the database and

institute is valid.

Section 13.

Section 97.24, Florida Statutes, is created to

read:

97.24 Language access.—

(1) As used in this section, the term:

(a) “Limited English proficient individual” means an

individual who does not speak English as his or her primary

language and who speaks, reads, or understands the English

language other than “very well” in accordance with United States

Census Bureau data or data of comparable quality collected by a

governmental entity.

(b) “Native American” includes any person recognized by the

United States Census Bureau or the state as “American Indian.”

(2) The FLVRA Commission must designate one or more

languages, other than English, for which assistance in voting
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261598__

and elections must be provided by a local government if the

commission finds that a significant and substantial need exists

for such assistance.

(3) Based on the best available data, which may include

information from the United States Census Bureau’s American

Community Survey or data of comparable quality collected by a

governmental entity, the FLVRA Commission must find that a

significant and substantial need exists if:

(a) More than 2 percent, but no fewer than 200 citizens of

voting age, of a local government speak a language other than

English and are limited English proficient individuals.

(b) More than 4,000 citizens of voting age of a local

government speak a language other than English and are limited

English proficient individuals.

(4) In the case of a local government that contains any

part of a Native American reservation, if more than 2 percent of

the Native American citizens of voting age within the Native

American reservation are proficient in a language other than

English and are limited English proficient individuals, the

local government must provide materials in such language.

(5)(a) On an annual basis, the FLVRA Commission shall
publish on its website a list of all of the following:
1. Each local government in which assistance in voting and
elections in a language other than English must be provided.
2. Each language in which such assistance must be provided
in each local government.

(b) The FLVRA Commission’s determinations under this

section are effective upon publication, and the commission shall

distribute this information to each affected local government.
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261598__

(6) Each local government described in paragraph (5)(a)

shall provide assistance in voting and elections, including

related materials, in any language designated by the commission

under paragraph (5)(a) to voters in a local government who are

limited English proficient individuals.

(7) Whenever the FLVRA Commission determines that, pursuant

to this section, language assistance must be provided by a local

government, the local government shall provide competent

assistance in each designated language and provide related

materials in English and in each designated language, including

voter registration or voting notices, forms, instructions,

assistance, ballots, or other materials or information relating

to the electoral process. However, in the case of a language

that is oral or unwritten, including historically unwritten

languages, as may be the case for some Native American

languages, a local government must provide oral instructions,

assistance, or other information on the electoral process in

such language. All materials provided in a designated language

must be of an equal quality to the corresponding English

materials. All provided translations must convey the intent and

essential meaning of the original text or communication and may

not rely solely on automatic translation services. If available,

live translation must be used for language assistance.

(8) The FLVRA Commission shall establish a review process

under which the commission determines, upon receipt of a request

submitted under this subsection, whether a significant and

substantial need exists in a local government for a language to

be designated for language access and assistance in voting and

elections if such need has not been found under subsection (3)
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261598__

or subsection (4). Such process, at a minimum, must include an

opportunity for any voter or entity to submit a request for the

commission to consider designating a language in a local

government; an opportunity for public comment; and a procedure

for determining whether a local government must provide language

assistance.

(9) Any individual or entity aggrieved by a violation of

this section, the Attorney General, or the FLVRA Commission may

file an action alleging a violation of this section. An entity

aggrieved by a violation of this section includes, but is not

limited to, any entity whose membership includes individuals

aggrieved by this section or whose mission would be frustrated

by a violation of this section, including, but not limited to,

an entity that would expend or divest resources to fulfill its

mission as a result of such violation or must expend greater

resources or efforts to advocate before an elected body that is

less responsive to the entity or its members due to the alleged

violation. An entity may not be compelled to disclose the

identity of any specific member to pursue a claim on behalf of

its members. This section must be liberally construed to confer

standing as broadly as the State Constitution allows. Such a

claim may be filed pursuant to the Florida Rules of Civil

Procedure or in the Second Judicial Circuit of Florida.

Section 14.

Section 97.25, Florida Statutes, is created to

read:

97.25 Preclearance.—

(1) The enactment or implementation of a covered policy by

a covered jurisdiction is subject to preclearance by the FLVRA

Commission.
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261598__

(2) For purposes of this section, a covered policy includes
any new or modified:

(a) Election policy or practice.

(b) Method of election, including districting or

redistricting.

(c) Form of government.

(d) Annexation, incorporation, dissolution, consolidation,

or division of a local government.
(e) Removal of individuals from registry lists or

enrollment lists and other activities concerning any such list,

except where the removal is at the specific written request of

the voter and other activities concerning any such list.

(f) Hours of any early voting site, or location or number

of early voting sites, polling places, or secure ballot intake

stations.

(g) Assignment of voting precincts to polling places or
secure ballot intake station locations.

(h) Assistance offered to protected class members.

(i) Any additional subject matter the FLVRA Commission may

identify for inclusion in this subsection, pursuant to

commission rule, if the commission determines that any election

policy or practice may have the effect of diminishing the right

to vote of any protected class member or have the effect of

violating this act.

(3) Following each decennial census, if a covered

jurisdiction does not make changes to its method of election,

including, but not limited to, maintaining an at-large method of

election or not making revisions to a district-based method of

election, the method of election must be deemed a covered policy
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261598__

and must be submitted to the FLVRA Commission pursuant to this

section.

(4) A covered jurisdiction includes any of the following:

(a) A local government that, within the preceding 25 years,

has been subject to a court order, government enforcement

action, court-approved consent decree, or other settlement in

which the local government conceded liability, based upon a

violation of this act, the federal Voting Rights Act, the 15th

Amendment to the United States Constitution, a voting-related

violation of the 14th Amendment to the United States

Constitution, or any violation of any other state or federal

election law, concerning discrimination against members of a

protected class.

(b) A local government that, within the preceding 25 years,

has been subject to any court order, government enforcement

action, court-approved consent decree, or any other settlement

in which the local government conceded liability, based upon a

violation of any state or federal civil rights law or the 14th

Amendment to the United States Constitution, concerning

discrimination against members of a protected class.

(c) A local government that, during the preceding 3 years,

has failed to comply with its obligation to provide data or

information to the database pursuant to s. 97.23.

(d) A local government that, during the preceding 25 years,

was found to have enacted or implemented a covered policy

without obtaining preclearance for that policy pursuant to this

section.

(e) A local government that contains at least 1,000

eligible voters of any protected class, or in which members of
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261598__

any protected class constitute at least 10 percent of the

eligible voter population of the local government, and in which,

in any year in the preceding 10 years, the percentage of voters

of any protected class in a local government which participated

in any general election for any local government office was at

least 10 percentage points lower than the percentage of all

voters in the local government who participated in such

election.

(f) A local government that contains at least 1,000

eligible voters of any protected class, or in which members of

any protected class constitute at least 10 percent of the

eligible voter population of the local government, and in which,

in any year in the preceding 10 years, the percentage of

eligible voters of that protected class who were registered to

vote was at least 10 percentage points lower than the percentage

of all eligible voters in the local government who registered to

vote.

(g) A local government that contains at least 1,000

eligible voters of any protected class, or in which members of

any protected class constitute at least 10 percent of the

eligible voter population of the local government, and in which,

in any year in the preceding 10 years, based on data made

available by the United States Census, the dissimilarity index

of such protected class, calculated using census tracts, was in

excess of 50 percent with respect to the race, color, or

language minority group that comprises a plurality within the

local government.

(h) A local government that contains at least 1,000

eligible voters of any protected class, or in which members of
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261598__

any protected class constitute at least 10 percent of the

eligible voter population of the local government, and in which,

in any year in the preceding 10 years, the poverty rate among

the population of such protected class exceeded the poverty rate

among the population of the local government as a whole by at

least 10 percentage points.

(i) A county that contains at least 1,000 eligible voters

of any protected class, or in which members of any protected

class constitute at least 10 percent of the eligible voter

population of the county, and in which, in any year in the

preceding 10 years, the arrest rate among members of such

protected class exceeded the arrest rate among the population of

the county as a whole by at least 10 percentage points.

(j) Any school district that contains at least 1,000

eligible voters of any protected class, or in which members of

any protected class constitute at least 10 percent of the

eligible voter population of the school district, and in which,

in any year in the preceding 10 years, the graduation rate of

such protected class was lower than the graduation rate of the

entire district student population by at least 10 percentage

points.

(5) The FLVRA Commission shall determine on an annual basis

which local governments are covered jurisdictions and publish a

list of such jurisdictions on its website.

(6) If a covered jurisdiction seeks preclearance from the

FLVRA Commission for the adoption or implementation of any

covered policy, the covered jurisdiction must submit the covered

policy to the commission in writing and may obtain preclearance

in accordance with this section.
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261598__

(a) The FLVRA Commission shall review the covered policy

submitted for preclearance, including any comments submitted by

members of the public, and make a determination to grant or deny

preclearance. The covered jurisdiction bears the burden of proof

in any preclearance determinations.

(b)1. The FLVRA Commission may deny preclearance to a
submitted covered policy only if it determines that:
a. The covered policy is more likely than not to diminish

the opportunity or ability of protected class members to

participate in the political process and elect candidates of

their choice or otherwise influence the outcome of elections; or

b. The covered policy is more likely than not to violate
this act.
2. If the commission denies preclearance, the applicable

covered jurisdiction may not enact or implement the covered

policy. The commission shall provide a written explanation for a

denial.

(c) If the FLVRA Commission grants preclearance to a

covered policy, the covered jurisdiction may immediately enact

or implement the covered policy. A determination by the

commission to grant preclearance is not admissible in, and may

not be considered by, a court in any subsequent action

challenging the covered policy. If the commission fails to deny

or grant preclearance to a submitted covered policy within the

timeframes set forth in paragraph (d), the covered policy is

deemed to be precleared, and the covered jurisdiction may enact

or implement the covered policy.

(d) If a covered policy concerns the method of election for
a legislative body, districting or redistricting, the number of
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261598__

seats on the legislative body, or annexation, incorporation,

dissolution, consolidation, or division of a local government,

the FLVRA Commission must review the covered policy, including

any comments submitted by members of the public, and make a

determination to deny or grant preclearance within 60 days after

the submission of the covered policy. The commission may invoke

up to two extensions of 90 days each to make such a

determination. For all other covered policies, the commission

shall review the covered policy, including any public comment,

and make a determination to deny or grant preclearance within 30

days after the submission of the covered policy. The commission

may invoke an extension of 60 days to make such a determination.

(e) A denial of preclearance under this section may be

appealed only by the covered jurisdiction and must be filed in

the Second Judicial Circuit. Other parties may not file an

action to appeal a denial of preclearance or intervene in any

such action brought by the covered jurisdiction.

(7) If a covered jurisdiction enacts or implements any

covered policy without obtaining preclearance for such covered

policy in accordance with this section, any individual or entity

aggrieved by such violation, the director of the database and

institute, the Attorney General, or the FLVRA Commission may

file an action to enjoin enactment or implementation and seek

sanctions against the covered jurisdiction for violations of

this section. An entity aggrieved by a violation of this section

includes, but is not limited to, any entity whose membership

includes individuals aggrieved by this section or whose mission

would be frustrated by a violation of this section, including,

but not limited to, an entity that would expend or divest
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261598__

resources to fulfill its mission as a result of such violation

or must expend greater resources or efforts to advocate before

an elected body that is less responsive to the entity or its

members due to the alleged violation. An entity may not be

compelled to disclose the identity of any specific member to

pursue a claim on behalf of its members. This section must be

liberally construed to confer standing as broadly as the State

Constitution allows. Such a claim may be filed pursuant to the

Florida Rules of Civil Procedure or in the Second Judicial

Circuit. A claim under this subsection does not preclude, bar,

or limit in any way any other claims that may be brought

regarding the covered policy, including claims brought under

other sections of this act.

(8) If the FLVRA Commission approves preclearance for a

covered policy in violation of this section, identifies or fails

to identify a list of local governments that are covered

jurisdictions in violation of this section, or otherwise fails

to properly implement this section, any individual or entity

aggrieved by such a violation may file an action seeking

appropriate relief, including, but not limited to, injunctive

relief on the commission or any other party, as the court deems

necessary to enforce this section. An entity aggrieved by a

violation of this section includes, but is not limited to, any

entity whose membership includes individuals aggrieved by this

section or whose mission would be frustrated by a violation of

this section, including, but not limited to, an entity that

would expend or divest resources to fulfill its mission as a

result of such violation or must expend greater resources or

efforts to advocate before an elected body that is less
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261598__

responsive to the entity or its members due to the alleged

violation. An entity may not be compelled to disclose the

identity of any specific member to pursue a claim on behalf of

its members. This section must be liberally construed to confer

standing as broadly as the State Constitution allows. Such a

claim may be filed pursuant to the Florida Rules of Civil

Procedure or in the Second Judicial Circuit of Florida. A claim

under this subsection does not preclude, bar, or limit any other

claims that may be brought regarding any covered policy,

including claims brought under other sections of this act.

(9) The FLVRA Commission shall adopt rules to implement

this section, including rules concerning the content of and

procedure for preclearance submission, procedures for public

comment and transparency regarding preclearance determinations,

and procedures for expedited and emergency preclearance

determinations that deviate from the timelines provided in

paragraph (6)(d), provided that such preclearance determinations

are preliminary.

Section 15.

Section 97.26, Florida Statutes, is created to

read:

97.26

Voter intimidation, deception, and obstruction.—

(1) A person may not, whether acting under color of law or

otherwise, engage in acts of intimidation, deception, or

obstruction, or any other tactic that has the effect of or may

reasonably have the effect of interfering with another person’s

right to vote.

(2) A violation of subsection (1) includes any of the
following:
(a) The use of force or threats to use force, or the use of
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261598__

any other conduct to practice intimidation, which causes or will

reasonably have the effect of causing interference with an

individual’s right to vote.

(b) Knowingly using or deploying a deceptive or fraudulent

device, contrivance, or communication that causes or will

reasonably have the effect of causing interference with an

individual’s right to vote.

(c) The obstruction of, impediment to, or interference with

access to any early voting site, polling place, secure ballot

intake station, or office of the supervisor of elections in a

manner that causes or will reasonably have the effect of causing

interference with an individual’s right to vote or causing any

delay in voting or the voting process.

(3)(a) In any action to enforce this section, there is a

rebuttable presumption that a person has violated this section

if he or she openly carries or brandishes a firearm, an

imitation firearm, a toy gun, a machete, an axe, a sword, or any

weapon as defined in s. 790.001 while:

1. Interacting with or observing any person voting or
attempting to vote;
2. Urging or aiding any person to vote or attempt to vote,

whether as part of official election administration activities

or unofficial activities; or

3. Exercising any power or duty in administering elections,

including, but not limited to, vote counting, canvassing, or

certifying returns.

(b) A law enforcement officer as defined in s. 943.10

acting within the scope of his or her official duties is not

subject to the presumption under paragraph (a), but a court may
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261598__

nonetheless consider a law enforcement officer’s possession of a

firearm in determining whether the officer violated this

section.

(4) Any individual or entity aggrieved by a violation of

this section, the Attorney General, or the FLVRA Commission may

file a civil action alleging a violation of this section. An

entity aggrieved by a violation of this section includes, but is

not limited to, any entity whose membership includes individuals

aggrieved by this section or whose mission would be frustrated

by a violation of this section, including, but not limited to,

an entity that would expend or divest resources to fulfill its

mission as a result of such violation or must expend greater

resources or efforts to advocate before an elected body that is

less responsive to the entity or its members due to the alleged

violation. An entity may not be compelled to disclose the

identity of any specific member to pursue a claim on behalf of

its members. This section must be liberally construed to confer

standing as broadly as the State Constitution allows. Such a

claim may be filed pursuant to the Florida Rules of Civil

Procedure or in the Second Judicial Circuit.

(5) In addition to any remedies that may be imposed under

s. 97.28, if the court finds a violation of this section, the

court must order appropriate remedies that are tailored to

addressing the violation, including, but not limited to,

providing for additional time for individuals to vote in an

election, a primary, or a referendum and awarding nominal

damages for any violation and compensatory or punitive damages

for any willful violation.

Section 16.

Section 97.27, Florida Statutes, is created to

CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261598__

read:

97.27 Democracy canon.—

(1) Any provision of this code and any regulation, charter,

home rule ordinance, or other enactment of the state or any

local government relating to the right to vote must be liberally

construed in favor of the rights enumerated in paragraphs (a)-

(e), as follows:

(a) Protecting the individual’s right to cast a ballot and
make the ballot valid.
(b) Ensuring eligible individuals seeking voter
registration are not impaired in being registered.
(c) Ensuring voters are not impaired in voting, including,
but not limited to, having their votes counted.
(d) Making the fundamental right to vote more accessible to
eligible voters.
(e) Ensuring equitable access for protected class members
to opportunities to be registered to vote and to vote.

(2) It is the policy of the state that courts should

exercise their discretion on any issue, including, but not

limited to, questions of discovery, procedure, admissibility of

evidence, or remedies, in favor of the rights enumerated in

paragraphs (1)(a)-(e) to the extent allowable by law.

Furthermore, it is the policy of the state to promote the free

flow of documents and information concerning the intent of

public officials in actions concerning the right to vote.

Accordingly, in any action under this act, the federal Voting

Rights Act, or a voting-related claim under the State

Constitution or the United States Constitution, sovereign,

governmental, executive, legislative, or deliberative immunities
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261598__

and privileges, including any evidentiary privileges, may not be

asserted. However, this section does not apply to any attorney-

client or attorney work-product privileges.

Section 17.

Section 97.28, Florida Statutes, is created to

read:

97.28 Remedies.—

(1) If a court finds a violation of this act, the court

must order appropriate remedies that are tailored to address

such violation and to ensure protected class members have

equitable opportunities to fully participate in the political

process and that the remedies can be implemented in a manner

that will not unduly disrupt the administration of an ongoing or

imminent election. Appropriate remedies include, but need not be

limited to, any of the following:

(a) Another method of election or changes to the existing
method of election.
(b) Elimination of staggered elections so that all members
of the legislative body are elected at the same time.

(c) Reasonably increasing the size of the legislative body.

(d) Additional voting days or hours.

(e) Additional polling places and early voting sites.

(f) Additional opportunities to return ballots.

(g) Holding special elections.

(h) Expanded opportunities for voter registration.

(i) Additional voter education.

(j) The restoration or addition of individuals to registry

lists.
(k) Retaining jurisdiction for such a period of time as the
court deems appropriate.
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261598__

(2) The court shall consider remedies proposed by any party

to the action or by interested nonparties. The court may not

give deference or priority to a proposed remedy because it is

proposed by the state or local government.

(3) If necessary to remedy a violation of this act, the

court is empowered to require a local government to implement

remedies that are inconsistent with any other law and any

special act, charter or home rule ordinance, or other enactment

of the state or local government.

(4) Notwithstanding the Florida Rules of Civil Procedure or

any other law, the court must grant a temporary injunction and

any other preliminary relief requested under this section with

respect to an upcoming election if the court determines that the

party is more likely than not to succeed on the merits and that

it is possible to implement an appropriate temporary remedy that

would resolve the violation alleged under this section before

the next general election.

(5) In any action to enforce this act, the court shall

award reasonable attorney fees and litigation costs, including,

but not limited to, expert witness fees and expenses, to the

party that filed an action, other than a state or local

government, and that prevailed in such action. The party that

filed the action is deemed to have prevailed when, as a result

of litigation, the party against whom the action was filed has

yielded some or all of the relief sought in the action. In the

case of a party against whom an action was filed and who

prevailed, the court may not award the party any costs unless

the court finds the action to be frivolous, unreasonable, or

without foundation.
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

Section 18.

20261598__
Paragraph (b) of subsection (4) of section

98.045, Florida Statutes, is amended to read:

98.045 Administration of voter registration.—

(4) STATEWIDE ELECTRONIC DATABASE OF VALID RESIDENTIAL

STREET ADDRESSES.—

(b) The department shall make the statewide database of

valid street addresses available to the Department of Highway

Safety and Motor Vehicles as provided in s. 97.057(8) s.

97.057(10). The Department of Highway Safety and Motor Vehicles

shall use the database for purposes of validating the legal

residential addresses provided in voter registration

applications received by the Department of Highway Safety and

Motor Vehicles.

Section 19.

Subsections (1) and (2) of section 98.255,

Florida Statutes, are amended to read:

98.255 Voter education programs.—

(1) The Department of State shall adopt rules prescribing

minimum standards for nonpartisan voter education. The standards

shall, at a minimum, address:

(a) Voter registration;

(b) Balloting procedures, by mail and polling place;

(c) Voter rights and responsibilities;

(d) Distribution of sample ballots; and

(e) Public service announcements; and

(f) Plain writing standards consistent with official

federal guidelines for the Plain Writing Act of 2010 and United

States Election Assistance Commission best practices for

designing effective voter education materials.

(2) Each county supervisor shall implement the minimum
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261598__

voter education standards, and shall conduct additional

nonpartisan education efforts as necessary to ensure that voters

have a working knowledge of the voting process. This includes

providing, to the extent possible, public-facing voter

information in plain language reasonably calculated to be

understood by persons with grade 8 reading level or lower.

Section 20.

Paragraphs (e) and (g) of subsection (14) of

section 100.371, Florida Statutes, are amended to read:

100.371 Initiatives; procedure for placement on ballot.—

(14)

(e) Beginning October 1, 2025, when the signature on the

petition form is verified as valid, the supervisor shall, as

soon as practicable, notify the voter by mail at the mailing

address on file in the Florida Voter Registration System.

1. Such notice must be sent by forwardable mail with a

postage prepaid preaddressed form, which may be returned to the

office of the supervisor of elections Office of Election Crimes

and Security. The notice must include contact information for

the office of the supervisor of elections Office of Election

Crimes and Security, including the telephone number, fax number,

mailing address, and e-mail address. The notice must include all

of the following statements or information in substantially the

following form:

NOTICE

A petition to place a proposed constitutional

amendment on the ballot for the next general election,

bearing your name and signature, has been received and
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261598__

verified by the Supervisor of Elections Office in

...(insert county)....

The petition is for ...(insert the petition serial

number and ballot title)... and was signed on

...(insert the date the voter signed the petition)....

Check this box ☐, sign, and return this notice to the

Office of the Supervisor of Elections Office of

Election Crimes and Security if you believe your

signature has been misrepresented or forged on a

petition. The petition form in question will be

invalidated and will not be counted toward the number

of signatures required to place this proposed

constitutional amendment on the ballot.

A notice being returned must be received by the Office

of the Supervisor of Elections Office of Election

Crimes and Security on or before February 1 ...(insert

the year in which the general election is held)....

...(Insert the voter’s Florida voter registration

number, and if applicable, the petition circulator’s

number)....

By signing below, I swear or affirm that my signature

was misrepresented or forged on the petition form

indicated in this notice.

CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261598__

...(Voter’s Signature)...

...(Date)...

This notice becomes a public record upon receipt by

the Office of the Supervisor of Elections Office of

Election Crimes and Security. It is a second degree

misdemeanor, punishable as provided in s. 775.082,

Florida Statutes, or s. 772.083, Florida Statutes, for

a person to knowingly make a false official statement

pursuant to s. 837.06, Florida Statutes.

2. Upon receiving a completed notice, the office of the

supervisor of elections Office of Election Crimes and Security

shall transmit a copy of such notices to the division. The

division shall deem the voter’s petition form invalid.

(g) On the last day of each month, or on the last day of

each week from December 1 of an odd-numbered year through

February 1 of the following year, each supervisor shall post on

his or her website the total number of signatures submitted, the

total number of invalid signatures, the total number of

signatures processed, and the aggregate number of verified valid

signatures and the distribution of such signatures by

congressional district for each proposed amendment proposed by

initiative, along with the following information specific to the

reporting period: the total number of signed petition forms

received, the total number of signatures verified, the

distribution of verified valid signatures by congressional

district, and the total number of verified petition forms

forwarded to the Secretary of State. For any reporting period in

which the percentage of petition forms deemed invalid by the
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261598__

supervisor exceeds a total of 25 percent of the petition forms

received by the supervisor for that reporting period, the

supervisor shall notify the department Office of Election Crimes

and Security. The department Office of Election Crimes and

Security shall conduct a preliminary investigation into the

activities of the sponsor, one or more petition circulators, or

a person collecting petition forms on behalf of a sponsor, to

determine whether the invalidated petitions are a result of

fraud or any other violation of this section. As authorized by

s. 97.012(15) ss. 97.012(15) and 97.022(1), the secretary Office

of Elections Crimes and Security may, if warranted, report

findings to the statewide prosecutor or the state attorney for

the judicial circuit in which the alleged violation occurred for

prosecution.

Section 21.

Section 100.51, Florida Statutes, is created to

read:

100.51 General Election Day paid holiday.—In order to

encourage civic participation, enable more individuals to serve

as poll workers, and provide additional time for the resolution

of any issue that arises while a voter is casting his or her

ballot, General Election Day shall be a paid holiday. A voter is

entitled to absent himself or herself from any service or

employment in which he or she is engaged or employed during the

time the polls are open on General Election Day. A voter who

absents himself or herself under this section may not be

penalized in any way, and a deduction may not be made from his

or her usual salary or wages, on account of his or her absence.

Section 22.

Section 101.016, Florida Statutes, is created

to read:
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261598__

101.016 Strategic elections equipment reserve.—

(1) The Division of Elections shall maintain a secure

election equipment reserve that may be deployed in the event of

an emergency as defined in s. 101.732 or in the event of

capacity issues due to unexpected voter turnout.

(2) The reserve, at a minimum, must include ballot marking

devices, scanners, tabulation equipment, ballot-on-demand

printers, paper required for voting machines and printers,

accessible voting equipment, electronic poll books,

uninterrupted power supplies, generators, cabling, and power

cords, and may include other related equipment necessary to

ensure the continuity of elections, consistent with the voting

systems certified for use by each supervisor of elections.

(3) The division may, in lieu of maintaining a physical

reserve of such equipment, contract with one or more certified

vendors of voting systems to provide such equipment on an as-

needed basis. Any such contract must include all of the

following:

(a) A guaranteed delivery timeframe no later than 24 hours

after a request by a supervisor of election, the division, or

the department.

(b) Requirements for the secure transportation,
installation, and removal of equipment.
(c) Maintenance of secure custody and detailed chain-of-

custody records for all equipment consistent with s. 101.015 and

related administrative rules, including documentation of each

transfer, installation, removal, and compliance with applicable

state cybersecurity and physical security standards.

(4) No later than February 1, 2027, and annually no later
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261598__

than February 1 thereafter, the division shall submit a report

to the Governor, the President of the Senate, and the Speaker of

the House of Representatives which includes all of the

following:

(a) The current inventory of equipment held in reserve or
available by vendor contract.

(b) A list of all deployments of equipment under this

section during the preceding calendar year, including the reason

for deployment, response time, and associated costs.

(c) Recommendations for improvements to ensure readiness

for future elections.

Section 23.

Section 101.019, Florida Statutes, is repealed.

Section 24.

Subsections (1) and (2) of section 101.048,

Florida Statutes, are amended to read:

101.048 Provisional ballots.—

(1) At all elections, a voter claiming to be properly

registered in this the state and eligible to vote at the

precinct in the election but whose eligibility cannot be

determined, a person whom an election official asserts is not

eligible, including, but not limited to, a person to whom notice

has been sent pursuant to s. 98.075(7), but for whom a final

determination of eligibility has not been made, and other

persons specified in the code is shall be entitled to vote a

provisional ballot at any precinct in the county in which the

voter claims to be registered. Once voted, the provisional

ballot must be placed in a secrecy envelope and thereafter

sealed in a provisional ballot envelope. The provisional ballot

must be deposited in a ballot box. All provisional ballots must

remain sealed in their envelopes for return to the supervisor of
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261598__

elections. The department shall prescribe the form of the

provisional ballot envelope. A person casting a provisional

ballot has the right to present written evidence supporting his

or her eligibility to vote to the supervisor of elections by not

later than 5 p.m. on the second day following the election.

(2)(a) The county canvassing board shall examine each

Provisional Ballot Voter’s Certificate and Affirmation to

determine if the person voting that ballot was entitled to vote

in the county in which at the precinct where the person cast a

vote in the election and that the person had not otherwise

already cast a ballot in the election. In determining whether a

person casting a provisional ballot is entitled to vote, the

county canvassing board shall review the information provided in

the Voter’s Certificate and Affirmation, written evidence

provided by the person pursuant to subsection (1), information

provided in any cure affidavit and accompanying supporting

documentation pursuant to subsection (6), any other evidence

presented by the supervisor, and, in the case of a challenge,

any evidence presented by the challenger. A ballot of a person

casting a provisional ballot must shall be canvassed pursuant to

paragraph (b) unless the canvassing board determines by a

preponderance of the evidence that the person was not entitled

to vote.

(b) If it is determined that the person was registered and

entitled to vote in the county in which at the precinct where

the person cast a vote in the election, the canvassing board

must compare the signature on the Provisional Ballot Voter’s

Certificate and Affirmation or the provisional ballot cure

affidavit with the signature on the voter’s registration or
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261598__

precinct register. A provisional ballot may be counted only if:

1. The signature on the voter’s certificate or the cure

affidavit matches the elector’s signature in the registration

books or the precinct register; however, in the case of a cure

affidavit, the supporting identification listed in subsection

(6) must also confirm the identity of the elector; or

2. The cure affidavit contains a signature that does not

match the elector’s signature in the registration books or the

precinct register, but the elector has submitted a current and

valid Tier 1 form of identification confirming his or her

identity pursuant to subsection (6).

For purposes of this paragraph, any canvassing board finding

that signatures do not match must be by majority vote and beyond

a reasonable doubt.

(c) Any provisional ballot not counted must remain in the

envelope containing the Provisional Ballot Voter’s Certificate

and Affirmation, and the envelope must shall be marked “Rejected

as Illegal.”

(d) If a provisional ballot is validated following the

submission of a cure affidavit, the supervisor must make a copy

of the affidavit, affix it to a voter registration application,

and immediately process it as a valid request for a signature

update pursuant to s. 98.077.

Section 25.

Subsection (1) of section 101.572, Florida

Statutes, is amended to read:

101.572 Public inspection of ballots.—

(1) The official ballots and ballot cards received from

election boards and removed from vote-by-mail ballot mailing
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261598__

envelopes and voter certificates on such mailing envelopes shall

be open for public inspection or examination while in the

custody of the supervisor of elections or the county canvassing

board at any reasonable time, under reasonable conditions;

however, no persons other than the supervisor of elections or

his or her employees or the county canvassing board shall handle

any official ballot or ballot card. If the ballots are being

examined prior to the end of the contest period in s. 102.168,

the supervisor of elections shall make a reasonable effort to

notify all candidates whose names appear on such ballots or

ballot cards by telephone or otherwise of the time and place of

the inspection or examination. All such candidates, or their

representatives, shall be allowed to be present during the

inspection or examination.

Section 26.

Paragraph (a) of subsection (1) and paragraphs

(c) and (d) of subsection (3) of section 101.62, Florida

Statutes, are amended, and subsection (7) is added to that

section, to read:

101.62 Request for vote-by-mail ballots.—

(1) REQUEST.—

(a) The supervisor shall accept a request for a vote-by-

mail ballot only from a voter or, if directly instructed by the

voter, a member of the voter’s immediate family or the voter’s

legal guardian. A request may be made in person, in writing, by

telephone, or through the supervisor’s website. The department

shall prescribe by rule by October 1, 2023, a uniform statewide

application to make a written request for a vote-by-mail ballot

which includes fields for all information required in this

subsection. One request is deemed sufficient to receive a votePage 91 of 113
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261598__

by-mail ballot for all elections until the voter or the voter’s

designee notifies the supervisor that the voter cancels such

request through the end of the calendar year of the next

regularly scheduled general election, unless the voter or the

voter’s designee indicates at the time the request is made the

elections within such period for which the voter desires to

receive a vote-by-mail ballot. The supervisor must cancel a

request for a vote-by-mail ballot when any first-class mail or

nonforwardable mail sent by the supervisor to the voter is

returned as undeliverable. If the voter requests a vote-by-mail

ballot thereafter, the voter must provide or confirm his or her

current residential address.

(3) DELIVERY OF VOTE-BY-MAIL BALLOTS.—

(c) Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (a) or

paragraph (b), the supervisor shall mail vote-by-mail ballots

within 2 business days after receiving a request for such a

ballot, but no later than the 11th 10th day before election day.

The deadline to submit a request for a ballot to be mailed is 5

p.m. local time on the 12th day before an upcoming election.

(d) Upon a request for a vote-by-mail ballot, the

supervisor shall provide a vote-by-mail ballot to each voter by

whom a request for that ballot has been made, by one of the

following means:

1. By nonforwardable, return-if-undeliverable mail to the

voter’s current mailing address on file with the supervisor or

any other address the voter specifies in the request. The

envelopes must be prominently marked “Do Not Forward.”

2. By forwardable mail, e-mail, or facsimile machine

transmission to absent uniformed services voters and overseas
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261598__

voters. The absent uniformed services voter or overseas voter

may designate in the vote-by-mail ballot request the preferred

method of transmission. If the voter does not designate the

method of transmission, the vote-by-mail ballot must be mailed.

3. By personal delivery to the voter after vote-by-mail

ballots have been mailed and up to 7 p.m. on election day upon

presentation of the identification required in s. 101.043.

4. By delivery to the voter’s designee after vote-by-mail

ballots have been mailed and up to 7 p.m. on election day. Any

voter may designate in writing a person to pick up the ballot

for the voter; however, the person designated may not pick up

more than two vote-by-mail ballots per election, other than the

designee’s own ballot, except that additional ballots may be

picked up for members of the designee’s immediate family. The

designee shall provide to the supervisor the written

authorization by the voter and a picture identification of the

designee and must complete an affidavit. The designee shall

state in the affidavit that the designee is authorized by the

voter to pick up that ballot and shall indicate if the voter is

a member of the designee’s immediate family and, if so, the

relationship. The department shall prescribe the form of the

affidavit. If the supervisor is satisfied that the designee is

authorized to pick up the ballot and that the signature of the

voter on the written authorization matches the signature of the

voter on file, the supervisor must give the ballot to that

designee for delivery to the voter.

5. Except as provided in s. 101.655, the supervisor may not

deliver a vote-by-mail ballot to a voter or a voter’s designee

pursuant to subparagraph 3. or subparagraph 4., respectively,
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261598__

during the mandatory early voting period and up to 7 p.m. on

election day, unless there is an emergency, to the extent that

the voter will be unable to go to a designated early voting site

in his or her county or to his or her assigned polling place on

election day. If a vote-by-mail ballot is delivered, the voter

or his or her designee must execute an affidavit affirming to

the facts which allow for delivery of the vote-by-mail ballot.

The department shall adopt a rule providing for the form of the

affidavit.

(7) DEADLINE EXTENSION.—If a deadline under this section

falls on a day when the office of the supervisor is scheduled to

be closed, the deadline must be extended until the next business

day.

Section 27.

Paragraph (a) of subsection (1) and subsections

(2) and (4) of section 101.64, Florida Statutes, are amended to

read:

101.64 Delivery of vote-by-mail ballots; envelopes; form.—

(1)(a) The supervisor shall enclose with each vote-by-mail

ballot two envelopes: a secrecy envelope, into which the absent

voter must elector shall enclose his or her marked ballot; and a

postage prepaid mailing envelope, into which the absent voter

must elector shall then place the secrecy envelope, which must

shall be addressed to the supervisor and also bear on the back

side a certificate in substantially the following form:

Note: Please Read Instructions Carefully Before

Marking Ballot and Completing Voter’s Certificate.

VOTER’S CERTIFICATE

I, ...., do solemnly swear or affirm that I am a qualified
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261598__

and registered voter of .... County, Florida, and that I have

not and will not vote more than one ballot in this election. I

understand that if I commit or attempt to commit any fraud in

connection with voting, vote a fraudulent ballot, or vote more

than once in an election, I can be convicted of a felony of the

third degree and fined up to $5,000 and/or imprisoned for up to

years. I also understand that failure to sign this certificate

will invalidate my ballot.

...(Date)...

...(Voter’s Signature or Last Four Digits of Social Security

Number)...

...(E-Mail Address)...

...(Home Telephone Number)...
...(Mobile Telephone Number)...

(2) The certificate must shall be arranged on the back of

the mailing envelope so that the line for the signature or last

four digits of the social security number of the voter are

absent elector is across the seal of the envelope; however, a no

statement may not shall appear on the envelope which indicates

that a signature or the last four digits of the social security

number of the voter must cross the seal of the envelope. The

voter must absent elector shall execute the certificate on the

envelope.

(4) The supervisor shall mark, code, indicate on, or

otherwise track the precinct of the voter absent elector for

each vote-by-mail ballot.

Section 28.

Section 101.65, Florida Statutes, is amended to

read:
101.65 Instructions to absent electors.—The supervisor
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261598__

shall enclose with each vote-by-mail ballot separate printed

instructions in substantially the following form; however, where

the instructions appear in capitalized text, the text of the

printed instructions must be in bold font:

READ THESE INSTRUCTIONS CAREFULLY

BEFORE MARKING BALLOT.

1. VERY IMPORTANT. In order to ensure that your vote-by-

mail ballot will be counted, it should be completed and returned

as soon as possible so that it can reach the supervisor of

elections of the county in which your precinct is located no

later than 7 p.m. on the day of the election. However, if you

are an overseas voter casting a ballot in a presidential

preference primary or general election, your vote-by-mail ballot

must be postmarked or dated no later than the date of the

election and received by the supervisor of elections of the

county in which you are registered to vote no later than 10 days

after the date of the election. Note that the later you return

your ballot, the less time you will have to cure any signature

deficiencies, which may cause your ballot not to be counted is

authorized until 5 p.m. on the 2nd day after the election. If

there is a problem with your signature, the supervisor of

elections must notify you as soon as practicable, and you have

until 5 p.m. on the second day after the election to correct it.

2. Mark your ballot in secret as instructed on the ballot.

You must mark your own ballot unless you are unable to do so

because of blindness, disability, or inability to read or write.

3. Mark only the number of candidates or issue choices for
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261598__

a race as indicated on the ballot. If you are allowed to “Vote

for One” candidate and you vote for more than one candidate,

your vote in that race will not be counted.

4. Place your marked ballot in the enclosed secrecy
envelope.
5. Insert the secrecy envelope into the enclosed mailing
envelope which is addressed to the supervisor.
6. Seal the mailing envelope and completely fill out the
Voter’s Certificate on the back of the mailing envelope.
7. VERY IMPORTANT. In order for your vote-by-mail ballot to

be counted, you must sign your name or print the last four

digits of your social security number on the line above (Voter’s

Signature or Last Four Digits of Social Security Number). A

vote-by-mail ballot will be considered illegal and not be

counted if the signature or the last four digits of the social

security number on the voter’s certificate do does not match the

signature or social security number on record. The signature on

file at the time the supervisor of elections in the county in

which your precinct is located receives your vote-by-mail ballot

is the signature that will be used to verify your signature on

the voter’s certificate. If you need to update your signature

for this election, send your signature update on a voter

registration application to your supervisor of elections so that

it is received before your vote-by-mail ballot is received.

8. VERY IMPORTANT. If you are an overseas voter, you must

include the date you signed the Voter’s Certificate or printed

the last four digits of your social security number on the line

above (Date) or your ballot may not be counted.

9. Mail, deliver, or have delivered the completed mailing
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261598__

envelope. If mailing, be sure there is sufficient postage if the

mailing envelope is not already postage-paid mailed. THE

COMPLETED MAILING ENVELOPE CAN BE DELIVERED TO THE OFFICE OF THE

SUPERVISOR OF ELECTIONS OF THE COUNTY IN WHICH YOUR PRECINCT IS

LOCATED OR DROPPED OFF AT AN AUTHORIZED SECURE BALLOT INTAKE

STATION, AVAILABLE AT EACH EARLY VOTING LOCATION.

10. FELONY NOTICE. It is a felony under Florida law to

accept any gift, payment, or gratuity in exchange for your vote

for a candidate. It is also a felony under Florida law to vote

in an election using a false identity or false address, or under

any other circumstances making your ballot false or fraudulent.

Section 29.

Paragraphs (a) and (b) of subsection (1),

paragraph (c) of subsection (2), and paragraphs (a), (c), and

(d) of subsection (4) of section 101.68, Florida Statutes, are

amended to read:

101.68 Canvassing of vote-by-mail ballot.—

(1)(a) The supervisor of the county where the absent

elector resides shall receive the voted ballot, at which time

the supervisor shall compare the signature or the last four

digits of the social security number of the elector on the

voter’s certificate with the signature or the last four digits

of the social security number of the elector in the registration

books or the precinct register to determine whether the elector

is duly registered in the county and must record on the

elector’s registration record that the elector has voted. During

the signature comparison process, the supervisor may not use any

knowledge of the political affiliation of the elector whose

signature is subject to verification.

(b) An elector who dies after casting a vote-by-mail ballot
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261598__

but on or before election day must shall remain listed in the

registration books until the results have been certified for the

election in which the ballot was cast. The supervisor shall

safely keep the ballot unopened in his or her office until the

county canvassing board canvasses the vote pursuant to

subsection (2).

(2)

(c)1. The canvassing board must, if the supervisor has not

already done so, compare the signature or the last four digits

of the social security number of the elector on the voter’s

certificate or on the vote-by-mail ballot cure affidavit as

provided in subsection (4) with the signature or last four

digits of the social security number of the elector in the

registration books or the precinct register to see that the

elector is duly registered in the county and to determine the

validity legality of that vote-by-mail ballot. A vote-by-mail

ballot may only be counted if:

a. The signature or last four digits of the social security

number on the voter’s certificate or the cure affidavit match

matches the elector’s signature or last four digits of the

social security number in the registration books or precinct

register; however, in the case of a cure affidavit, the

supporting identification listed in subsection (4) must also

confirm the identity of the elector; or

b. The cure affidavit contains a signature or the last four

digits of a social security number which do that does not match

the elector’s signature or last four digits of the social

security number in the registration books or precinct register,

but the elector has submitted a current and valid Tier 1
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261598__

identification pursuant to subsection (4) which confirms the

identity of the elector.

For purposes of this subparagraph, any canvassing board finding

that an elector’s signatures or last four digits of the

elector’s social security number do not match must be by

majority vote and beyond a reasonable doubt.

2. The ballot of an elector who casts a vote-by-mail ballot

shall be counted even if the elector dies on or before election

day, as long as, before the death of the voter, the ballot was

postmarked by the United States Postal Service, date-stamped

with a verifiable tracking number by a common carrier, or

already in the possession of the supervisor.

3. A vote-by-mail ballot is not considered invalid illegal

if the signature or last four digits of the social security

number of the elector do does not cross the seal of the mailing

envelope.

4. If any elector or candidate present believes that a

vote-by-mail ballot is illegal due to a defect apparent on the

voter’s certificate or the cure affidavit, he or she may, at any

time before the ballot is removed from the envelope, file with

the canvassing board a protest against the canvass of that

ballot, specifying the precinct, the voter’s certificate or the

cure affidavit, and the reason he or she believes the ballot to

be illegal. A challenge based upon a defect in the voter’s

certificate or cure affidavit may not be accepted after the

ballot has been removed from the mailing envelope.

5. If the canvassing board determines that a ballot is

invalid illegal, a member of the board must, without opening the
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261598__

envelope, mark across the face of the envelope: “rejected as

invalid illegal.” The cure affidavit, if applicable, the

envelope, and the ballot therein must shall be preserved in the

manner that official ballots are preserved.

(4)(a) As soon as practicable, the supervisor shall, on

behalf of the county canvassing board, attempt to notify an

elector who has returned a vote-by-mail ballot that does not

include the elector’s signature or last four digits of the

elector’s social security number or contains a signature or the

last four digits of a social security number that do does not

match the elector’s signature or last four digits of the

elector’s social security number in the registration books or

precinct register by:

1. Notifying the elector of the signature or last four

digits of the social security number deficiency by e-mail and

directing the elector to the cure affidavit and instructions on

the supervisor’s website;

2. Notifying the elector of the signature or last four

digits of the social security number deficiency by text message

and directing the elector to the cure affidavit and instructions

on the supervisor’s website; or

3. Notifying the elector of the signature or last four

digits of the social security number deficiency by telephone and

directing the elector to the cure affidavit and instructions on

the supervisor’s website.

In addition to the notification required under subparagraph 1.,

subparagraph 2., or subparagraph 3., the supervisor must notify

the elector of the signature or last four digits of the social
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261598__

security number deficiency by first-class mail and direct the

elector to the cure affidavit and instructions on the

supervisor’s website. Beginning the day before the election, the

supervisor is not required to provide notice of the signature

deficiency by first-class mail, but shall continue to provide

notice as required under subparagraph 1., subparagraph 2., or

subparagraph 3.

(c) The elector must complete a cure affidavit in
substantially the following form:

VOTE-BY-MAIL BALLOT CURE AFFIDAVIT

I, ...., am a qualified voter in this election and

registered voter of .... County, Florida. I do solemnly swear or

affirm that I requested and returned the vote-by-mail ballot and

that I have not and will not vote more than one ballot in this

election. I understand that if I commit or attempt any fraud in

connection with voting, vote a fraudulent ballot, or vote more

than once in an election, I may be convicted of a felony of the

third degree and fined up to $5,000 and imprisoned for up to 5

years. I understand that my failure to sign this affidavit means

that my vote-by-mail ballot will be invalidated.

...(Voter’s Signature or Last Four Digits of Social Security

Number)...

...(Address)...

(d) Instructions must accompany the cure affidavit in
substantially the following form:
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261598__

READ THESE INSTRUCTIONS CAREFULLY BEFORE COMPLETING THE

AFFIDAVIT. FAILURE TO FOLLOW THESE INSTRUCTIONS MAY CAUSE YOUR

BALLOT NOT TO COUNT.

1. In order to ensure that your vote-by-mail ballot will be

counted, your affidavit should be completed and returned as soon

as possible so that it can reach the supervisor of elections of

the county in which your precinct is located no later than 5

p.m. on the 2nd day after the election.

2. You must sign your name or print the last four digits of

your social security number on the line above (Voter’s Signature

or Last Four Digits of Social Security Number).

3. You must make a copy of one of the following forms of
identification:

a. Tier 1 identification.—Current and valid identification

that includes your name and photograph: Florida driver license;

Florida identification card issued by the Department of Highway

Safety and Motor Vehicles; United States passport; debit or

credit card; military identification; student identification;

retirement center identification; neighborhood association

identification; public assistance identification; veteran health

identification card issued by the United States Department of

Veterans Affairs; a Florida license to carry a concealed weapon

or firearm; or an employee identification card issued by any

branch, department, agency, or entity of the Federal Government,

the state, a county, or a municipality; or

b. Tier 2 identification.—ONLY IF YOU DO NOT HAVE A TIER 1

FORM OF IDENTIFICATION, identification that shows your name and
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261598__

current residence address: current utility bill, bank statement,

government check, paycheck, or government document (excluding

voter information card).

4. Place the envelope bearing the affidavit into a mailing

envelope addressed to the supervisor. Insert a copy of your

identification in the mailing envelope. Mail (if time permits),

deliver, or have delivered the completed affidavit along with

the copy of your identification to your county supervisor of

elections. Be sure there is sufficient postage if mailed and

that the supervisor’s address is correct. Remember, your

information MUST reach your county supervisor of elections no

later than 5 p.m. on the 2nd day after the election, or your

ballot will not count.

5. Alternatively, you may hand deliver, fax, or e-mail your

completed affidavit and a copy of your identification to the

supervisor of elections. If e-mailing, please provide these

documents as attachments.

Section 30.

Section 101.69, Florida Statutes, is amended to

read:

101.69 Voting in person; return of vote-by-mail ballot.—

(1) The provisions of this code may shall not be construed

to prohibit any voter elector from voting in person at the

voter’s elector’s precinct on the day of an election or at an

early voting site, notwithstanding that the voter elector has

requested a vote-by-mail ballot for that election. A voter An

elector who has returned a voted vote-by-mail ballot to the

supervisor, however, is deemed to have cast his or her ballot

and is not entitled to vote another ballot or to have a

provisional ballot counted by the county canvassing board. A
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261598__

voter An elector who has received a vote-by-mail ballot and has

not returned the voted ballot to the supervisor, but desires to

vote in person, shall return the ballot, whether voted or not,

to the election board in the voter’s elector’s precinct or to an

early voting site. The returned ballot must shall be marked

“canceled” by the board and placed with other canceled ballots.

However, if the voter elector does not return the ballot and the

election official:

(a) Confirms that the supervisor has received the voter’s

elector’s vote-by-mail ballot, the voter may elector shall not

be allowed to vote in person. If the voter elector maintains

that he or she has not returned the vote-by-mail ballot or

remains eligible to vote, the voter must elector shall be

provided a provisional ballot as provided in s. 101.048.

(b) Confirms that the supervisor has not received the

voter’s elector’s vote-by-mail ballot, the voter must elector

shall be allowed to vote in person as provided in this code. The

voter’s elector’s vote-by-mail ballot, if subsequently received,

may shall not be counted and must shall remain in the mailing

envelope, and the envelope must shall be marked “Rejected as

Illegal.”

(c) Cannot determine whether the supervisor has received

the voter’s elector’s vote-by-mail ballot, the voter elector may

vote a provisional ballot as provided in s. 101.048.

(2)(a) The supervisor shall allow a voter an elector who

has received a vote-by-mail ballot to physically return a voted

vote-by-mail ballot to the supervisor by placing the return mail

envelope containing his or her marked ballot in a secure ballot

intake station. Secure ballot intake stations must shall be
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261598__

placed at the main office of the supervisor, at each permanent

branch office of the supervisor which meets the criteria set

forth in s. 101.657(1)(a) for branch offices used for early

voting and which is open for at least the minimum number of

hours prescribed by s. 98.015(4), and at each early voting site.

Secure ballot intake stations may also be placed at any other

site that would otherwise qualify as an early voting site under

s. 101.657(1). Secure ballot intake stations must be

geographically located so as to provide all voters in the county

with an equal opportunity to cast a ballot, insofar as is

practicable. Except for secure ballot intake stations at an

office of the supervisor, a secure ballot intake station may

only be used during the county’s early voting hours of operation

and must be monitored in person by an employee of the

supervisor’s office. A secure ballot intake station at an office

of the supervisor must be continuously monitored in person by an

employee of the supervisor’s office when the secure ballot

intake station is accessible for deposit of ballots.

(b) A supervisor shall designate each secure ballot intake

station location at least 30 days before an election. The

supervisor shall provide the address of each secure ballot

intake station location to the division at least 30 days before

an election. After a secure ballot intake station location has

been designated, it may not be moved or changed except as

approved by the division to correct a violation of this

subsection.

(c)1. On each day of early voting, all secure ballot intake

stations must be emptied at the end of early voting hours and

all ballots retrieved from the secure ballot intake stations
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261598__

must be returned to the supervisor’s office.
2. For secure ballot intake stations located at an office

of the supervisor, all ballots must be retrieved before the

secure ballot intake station is no longer monitored by an

employee of the supervisor.

3. Employees of the supervisor must comply with procedures

for the chain of custody of ballots as required by s.

101.015(4).

(3) If any secure ballot intake station is left accessible

for ballot receipt other than as authorized by this section, the

supervisor is subject to a civil penalty of $25,000. The

division is authorized to enforce this provision.

Section 31.

Section 104.0616, Florida Statutes, is

repealed.
Section 32.

Subsection (1) of section 104.155, Florida

Statutes, is amended to read:
104.155 Unqualified noncitizen electors willfully voting;

prohibited defenses; aiding or soliciting noncitizen electors in

voting prohibited.—

(1) Any person who is not a qualified elector because he or

she is not a citizen of the United States and who willfully

votes in any election is guilty of a felony of the third degree,

punishable as provided in s. 775.082, s. 775.083, or s. 775.084.

A person’s ignorance of his or her citizenship status or a

person’s bona fide belief of his or her citizenship status

cannot be raised as a defense in a prosecution for a violation

of this subsection.

Section 33.

Subsection (1) of section 104.42, Florida

Statutes, is amended to read:
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261598__

104.42 Fraudulent registration and illegal voting;
investigation.—
(1) The supervisor of elections is authorized to

investigate fraudulent registrations and illegal voting and to

report his or her findings to the local state attorney and the

Office of Election Crimes and Security.

Section 34.

Paragraph (a) of subsection (3) of section

921.0022, Florida Statutes, is amended to read:
921.0022 Criminal Punishment Code; offense severity ranking
chart.—

(3) OFFENSE SEVERITY RANKING CHART

(a) LEVEL 1

Florida

Felony

Statute

Degree

Description

3rd

Counterfeit or altered state

24.118(3)(a)

lottery ticket.
104.0616(2)

3rd

Unlawfully distributing,
ordering, requesting,
collecting, delivering, or
possessing vote-by-mail
ballots.

212.054(2)(b)

3rd

Discretionary sales surtax;
limitations, administration,
and collection.

CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

212.15(2)(b)

20261598__
3rd

Failure to remit sales
taxes, amount $1,000 or more
but less than $20,000.

316.1935(1)

3rd

Fleeing or attempting to
elude law enforcement
officer.

319.30(5)

3rd

Sell, exchange, give away
certificate of title or
identification number plate.

319.35(1)(a)

3rd

Tamper, adjust, change,
etc., an odometer.

320.26(1)(a)

3rd

Counterfeit, manufacture, or
sell registration license
plates or validation
stickers.

322.212

3rd

(1)(a)-(c)

Possession of forged,
stolen, counterfeit, or
unlawfully issued driver
license; possession of
simulated identification.

322.212(4)

3rd

Supply or aid in supplying
unauthorized driver license
or identification card.

CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261598__

322.212(5)(a)

3rd

False application for driver
license or identification
card.

414.39(3)(a)

3rd

Fraudulent misappropriation
of public assistance funds
by employee/official, value
more than $200.

443.071(1)

3rd

False statement or
representation to obtain or
increase reemployment
assistance benefits.

509.151(1)

3rd

Defraud an innkeeper, food
or lodging value $1,000 or
more.

517.302(1)

3rd

Violation of the Florida
Securities and Investor
Protection Act.

713.69

3rd

Tenant removes property upon
which lien has accrued,
value $1,000 or more.

812.014(3)(c)

3rd

Petit theft (3rd
conviction); theft of any

CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261598__
property not specified in
subsection (2).

815.04(4)(a)

3rd

Offense against intellectual
property (i.e., computer
programs, data).

817.52(2)

3rd

Hiring with intent to
defraud, motor vehicle
services.

817.569(2)

3rd

Use of public record or
public records information
or providing false
information to facilitate
commission of a felony.

826.01

3rd

Bigamy.

828.122(3)

3rd

Fighting or baiting animals.

831.04(1)

3rd

Any erasure, alteration,

etc., of any replacement
deed, map, plat, or other
document listed in s. 92.28.
831.31(1)(a)

3rd

Sell, deliver, or possess
counterfeit controlled
substances, all but s.

CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261598__
893.03(5) drugs.

832.041(1)

3rd

Stopping payment with intent
to defraud $150 or more.

832.05(2)(b) &

3rd

(4)(c)

Knowing, making, issuing
worthless checks $150 or
more or obtaining property
in return for worthless
check $150 or more.

838.15(2)

3rd

Commercial bribe receiving.

838.16

3rd

Commercial bribery.

843.18

3rd

Fleeing by boat to elude a

law enforcement officer.
847.011(1)(a)

3rd

Sell, distribute, etc.,
obscene, lewd, etc.,
material (2nd conviction).

849.09(1)(a)-(d)

3rd

Lottery; set up, promote,
etc., or assist therein,
conduct or advertise drawing
for prizes, or dispose of
property or money by means
of lottery.

CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

849.23

20261598__
3rd

Gambling-related machines;
“common offender” as to
property rights.

849.25(2)

3rd

Engaging in bookmaking.

860.08

3rd

Interfere with a railroad

signal.
860.13(1)(a)

3rd

Operate aircraft while under
the influence.

893.13(2)(a)2.

3rd

Purchase of cannabis.

893.13(6)(a)

3rd

Possession of cannabis (more

than 20 grams).
934.03(1)(a)

3rd

Intercepts, or procures any
other person to intercept,
any wire or oral
communication.

Section 35.

Except as otherwise expressly provided in this

act and except for this section, which shall take effect upon

this act becoming a law, this act shall take effect July 1,

2026.

CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.
