HB568

2JZB6SI-1

By Representative

RFD: State Government

First Read: 05-Mar-26

Page 0

2JZB6SI-1 02/24/2026 GED (L)ma 2026-833

SYNOPSIS:
This bill would increase the fee for the child
labor certificates from $15 to $50 per child.

This bill would provide for the distribution of

penalty fees collected for violating child labor laws.

This bill would remove certain boiler and

pressure vessels from being exempt from certain boiler

and pressure vessel standards.

This bill would further provide for the fee for

pressure vessel certificates of inspection and the

distribution of those fees.

This bill would require the Elevator Safety

Review Board to review the latest editions of elevator

safety standards within a certain amount of time and

have any adopted standards become effective within six

months of the board's review date.

This bill would require new elevator

installations to meet the state elevator code that was

in effect when the building construction permit was

issued or at the time of final approval from the

Division of Construction Management, while

modifications or alterations must meet the standards in

effect at the time the elevator permit was issued.

This would extend the renewal period for certain
elevator-related licenses.
Page 1

This bill would also prohibit companies and

individuals from altering conveyances from the

Department of Workforce.

A BILL

TO BE ENTITLED

AN ACT

Relating to the Department of Workforce; to amend

Sections 25-5-316, 25-8-45, 25-8-59, 25-12-7, 25-12-18,

25-13-6, 25-13-12, and 25-13-15, Code of Alabama 1975, to

increase the fee for the child labor certificates; to provide

for the distribution of penalty fees collected for violating

child labor laws; to further provide for boiler and pressure

vessel exceptions; to further provide for the fee for pressure

vessel certificates of inspection and its distribution; to

further provide for the duties of the Elevator Safety Review

Board and elevator safety standards; to extend the renewal

period for certain licenses; and to prohibit certain persons

from altering conveyances.

BE IT ENACTED BY THE LEGISLATURE OF ALABAMA:

Section 1. Sections 25-5-316, 25-8-45, 25-8-59,

25-12-7, 25-12-18, 25-13-6, 25-13-12, and 25-13-15, Code of

Alabama 1975, are amended to read as follows:

"§25-5-316

(a) There is established in the State Treasury a fund

entitled the Workers' Compensation Administrative Trust Fund,
Page 2

into which shall be deposited certain assessments collected by

the Department of Workforce, as provided for under Chapter 5

(commencing with Section 25-5-1) of Title 25, shall be

deposited. collected by the Department of Labor. The fund

shall constitute a separate fund to be disbursed by the state

Comptroller on order of the Secretary of the Department of

LaborDepartment of Workforce. All expenses incurred by the

department under the Workers' Compensation Law, including the

salaries of all employees, travel cost costs, and any other

cost of administration and enforcement as may become

necessary, either within or without the state, shall be paid

from the separate fund in the State Treasury upon warrants of

the state Comptroller drawn upon the State Treasury from time

to time when vouchers therefor are approved by the secretary.

The State Treasurer shall pay moneysmonies from the separate

fund upon the order of the secretary. The total expense for

every purpose incurred shall not exceed the total assessment

collected and paid into the fund. The total expense for every

purpose incurred in implementing this article shall not exceed

the amount appropriated by the Legislature in the general fund

appropriation act. No funds shall be withdrawn or expended

except those budgeted and allocated in accordance with Article

(commencing with Section 41-4-80) of Chapter 4 of Title 41.

All moneysmonies remaining unexpended in the separate fund at

the end of the fiscal year shall remain in the State Treasury

to be expended as herein provided at the discretion of the

secretary. Included in the budget shall be an amount of money

allocated for the specific and exclusive purpose of paying
Page 3

only benefits to the claimants who have qualified to receive

benefits from the Second Injury Trust Fund on May 19, 1992.

Payments of these benefits shall be made weekly. The secretary

shall each week make requisitions to the state Comptroller who

shall draw warrants on the State Treasurer for the weekly

compensation amount. The warrants shall be drawn only if there

are sufficient moneysmonies in the State Treasury for

immediate payment. Claims shall take priority in an ascending

numerical order according to the time of the accident, and the

time shown in the settlement between the employer and employee

shall be prima facie evidence of the time of the accident. No

funds allocated for the payment of benefits from the fund

shall be used to pay lump-sum attorney's attorney fees.

Payment shall resume at the end of the first week of the

fiscal year in which the Legislature approves the requested

budget for the Workers' Compensation Administrative Trust

Fund. The claimants who were receiving weekly benefits from

the Second Injury Trust Fund as of August 31, 1991, shall be

paid all weekly benefits due to date and the benefits shall be

continued for the duration of claim. Those amounts shall be

paid from the moneysmonies as allocated.

(b) The State Treasurer shall determine if the money in

the trust fund shall be kept in cash or invested. The

moneysmonies in the fund may be invested by the State

Treasurer and all moneysmonies and interest remaining

unexpended in the separate fund provided at the end of the

fiscal year shall remain in the State Treasury to be expended

as herein provided.
Page 4

(c) The secretary is designated as trustee of the fund

and the State Treasurer is designated as custodian of the

fund, and both shall furnish bonds in amounts deemed

appropriate. The cost of bonds for the trustee, custodian, and

other employees or officials required to post bond in

connection with the program shall be paid out of the fund.

(d) Each insurance carrier, self-insured employer, and

group fund shall be assessed $250.00 two hundred fifty dollars

($250). The gross claims for compensation and medical payments

paid by the carriers, self-insured employers, and group funds

are the basis for computing the amount to be assessed. The

amount of assessment shall be based upon the proportion that

the total gross claims for compensation and medical payments

paid by the carrier, self-insured employer, or group fund

during the preceding calendar year bore to the total gross

claims for compensation and medical payments paid by all

carriers, self-insured employers, and group funds during that

period. The total assessment shall not exceed $5,000,000.00

five million dollars ($5,000,000) per year. The secretary

shall determine if the assessment shall be a specific amount

or shall be a percentage of gross claims for compensation and

medical payments paid by the insurance carriers, self-insured

employers, and group funds. An assessment shall not exceed an

amount reasonably necessary to defray the necessary

administration expense.

(e) The department shall provide by regulation for the

collection of the amounts assessed against each insurance

carrier, self-insured employer, and group fund. The amounts
Page 5

shall be paid within 30 days from the date that the notice is

served upon the insurance carrier, self-insured employer, and

group fund. If the amounts are not paid within that period,

there may be assessed, for each 30 days that the amount so

assessed remains unpaid, a civil penalty equal to 10 percent

of the amount unpaid. The amount of the civil penalty shall be

collected at the same time the amount assessed is collected.

(f) If an insurance carrier, self-insured employer, or

group fund fails to pay the amounts assessed against it within

days from the time the notice is served, the department may

suspend or revoke the authorization to the self-insurer and

may request that the Department of Insurance revoke the

authority of the insurance company to insure workers'

compensation.

(g) The department may require from each insurance

carrier, self-insured employer, and group fund reports with

respect to all payments of compensation and medical payments

by the insurance carriers, self-insured employers, or group

funds during each calendar year, and may determine the amounts

paid by each insurance carrier, self-insured employer, and

group fund and may determine the amounts paid by all insurance

carriers, self-insured employers, and group funds during the

period.

(h) On or before the first day of March 1 of each year,

every insurance carrier, self-insured employer, and group fund

shall file with the department a statement on the prescribed

forms showing the gross claims for compensation and medical

payments paid by the insurance carrier, self-insured employer,
Page 6

or group fund during the preceding one-year period ending on

the 31st day of December 31. Any insurance carrier,

self-insured employer, or group fund which that neglects to

file its annual written statement within the time provided in

this manner shall pay to the Workers' Compensation

Administrative Trust Fund a penalty for each day's neglect in

an amount prescribed by rule of the secretary.

(i) All money collected under this section shall be

deposited in the Workers' Compensation Administrative Trust

Fund."

"§25-8-45

(a) No individual, entity, franchise, corporation, or

division of a corporation shall employ, permit, or suffer

allow to work any minor 14 or 15 years of age in any

occupation, except in agricultural service, unless the

individual, entity, franchise, corporation, or division of a

corporation procures and keeps on file, for the inspection by

the officials charged with the enforcement of this chapter, a

complete list of those individuals 14 or 15 years of age

employed by the employer.

(b) Any individual, entity, franchise, corporation, or

division of a corporation that wishes to employ, permit, or

suffer allow to work any minor 14 or 15 years of age in any

occupation, except in agricultural service, shall obtain a

Class I Child Labor Certificate from the department for each

location where an individual, entity, franchise, corporation,

or division of a corporation wishes to employ a minor 14 or 15

years of age. The employment shall be in accordance with this
Page 7

chapter.
(c) The certificate shall allow the employment of

minors 14 or 15 years of age to work only outside of school

hours or during vacation periods and only in occupations not

prohibited by this chapter for individuals of these ages.

(d) The employment of a minor 14 or 15 years of age

shall be revoked or suspended by the department if the minor's

regular school attendance and performance record is not

satisfactory to the head administrator, or, if home schooled,

an instructor of the school that the minor attends. The

revocation or suspension shall be processed by the department

upon notification by the school.

(e) Any individual, entity, franchise, corporation, or

division of a corporation that wishes to employ, permit, or

suffer allow to work any minor 16 or 17 years of age in any

occupation, except in agricultural service, shall obtain a

Class II Child Labor Certificate from the department for each

location where an individual, entity, franchise, corporation,

or division of a corporation wishes to employ a minor 16 or 17

years of age. The employment shall be in accordance with this

chapter.

(f) The department shall issue Class I and Class II

Child Labor Certificates to any individual, entity, franchise,

corporation, or division of a corporation that applies to the

department. The fee for a Class I or Class II Child Labor

Certificate shall be fifteen fifty dollars ($15)($50). The

certificates shall be issued annually.

(g)(1) The application for the child labor certificate
Page 8

shall contain all of the following information specific to the

location of the minor's employment:

a. The name, address, and telephone number of the

individual, entity, franchise, corporation, or division of a

corporation that wishes to employ, permit, or suffer allow to

work any minor.

b. The type of business or entity, the federal employer

identification number, the names of all incorporators, owners,

members, or partners of the business or entity.
c. Any other information as required by department

rule.
(2) The Class I and Class II Child Labor Certificates

shall contain all of the following information:

a. The name of the employer.

b. The type of business the employer maintains.

c. Any other information as required by department

rule.
(3) If an individual, entity, franchise, corporation,

or division of a corporation employs a minor between 14 and 17

years of age without a proper child labor certificate, the

individual, entity, franchise, corporation, or division of a

corporation shall pay a penalty of fifty dollars ($50) per

minor and then shall obtain a certificate in the proper

manner.

(4) The parent or guardian of a minor who is 14 or 15

years of age and employed by an individual, entity, franchise,

corporation, or division of a corporation shall notify the

minor's head administrator, counselor, or, if home schooled,
Page 9

an instructor of the school which that the minor attends, of

the name, address, and telephone number of the

personindividual, entity, franchise, corporation, or division

of a corporation employing the minor."

"§25-8-59

(a) Any employer who violates this chapter, or who

fails or refuses to obey within a reasonable time any lawful

order or direction given by the state officials charged with

the enforcement of this chapter, and any parent, guardian, or

custodian who suffers allows or permits an individual under

his or her care or control who is under 19 years of age to

work in violation of this chapter, shall be subject to civil

penalties in addition to other penalties provided in this

chapter.

(b) The department may impose a civil penalty of not

less than three hundred dollars ($300) upon a determination

that an employer has violated a statutory provision of Section

25-8-35(a)(17), 25-8-36, 25-8-37, 25-8-38, 25-8-39, 25-8-40,

25-8-41, 25-8-44(a), 25-8-44(b), 25-8-45, 25-8-54, 25-8-57,

25-8-60, or 25-8-61.

(c) The department shall impose a civil penalty of five

thousand dollars ($5,000) to ten thousand dollars ($10,000)

upon a determination that an employer has violated a statutory

provision of Section 25-8-33, 25-8-35(a)(1) through

25-8-35(a)(16), 25-8-43(a), or 25-8-44(d).

(d) In determining the number of violations committed

by an employer, the department may assess a separate civil

penalty for each individual employee affected by the
Page 10

employer's violation.
(e) In addition, the department may assess more than

one civil penalty against an employer with respect to the same

adversely affected employee if the employer has violated more

than one statutory provision of this chapter.

(f) The employer shall be notified of a civil penalty

assessment by the Notice of Violation and Opportunity to Show

Cause which shall be sent to the employer.

(g) The Notice of Violation and Opportunity to Show
Cause shall provide all of the following:

(1) The total civil penalty assessed.

(2) The right of the employer to request in writing a

hearing to show cause why the civil penalty should not be

assessed.

(3) An advisement that no hearing shall be granted

unless a written request for a hearing is received by the

department within 30 days from the date of issue of the

notice.

(4) The right of the employer to waive the right to

request a hearing and to respond in writing to the notice

within 30 days of the issue date of the notice.

(h) Any employer who seeks to contest a civil penalty

assessment shall file, within 30 days from the date the Notice

of Violation and Opportunity to Show Cause was issued, a

written request for an opportunity to be heard which shall

clearly state the reasons for the request, including facts to

demonstrate that no violation has occurred.

(i) If the secretary or his or her designee determines
Page 11

that the employer has stated adequate facts or legal grounds

to warrant a hearing, the secretary or his or her designee

shall provide written notice of the hearing to show cause why

a civil penalty should not be assessed and shall mail written

notice to the employer of the date, time, and place of the

hearing. The determination shall be within the discretion of

the secretary or his or her designee. The notice shall inform

the employer of the employer's rights in the hearing including

the following:

(1) The right to be represented by any
personindividual, including an attorney.
(2) The right to present documentary evidence and a
written argument in support of the employer's position.
(j) A request for postponement of a scheduled hearing

shall only be granted where the rights of an employer would be

substantially prejudiced by the denial of the request or in a

medical emergency. Only the secretary or his or her designee

has discretion to grant such requests.

(k) Following a hearing or after the employer has

waived the right to request a hearing, the secretary or his or

her designee may uphold or modify the civil penalty

assessment. This determination shall be within the sole

discretion of the secretary or his or her designee.

(l) If the employer requests a hearing but the

secretary or his or her designee denies the request for a

hearing, the total civil penalty assessed in the notice shall

be the final civil penalty.

(m) If the employer does not request a hearing or
Page 12

respond in writing to the notice, the total civil penalty

assessed in the notice shall be the final civil penalty unless

otherwise modified by the secretary or his or her designee.

(n) The department may file an action for the

collection of civil penalties imposed pursuant to this section

against an employer in the county where the violation

occurred.

(o) All monies received from the assessment of any

penalty pursuant to this section shall accrue to the State

General Fund.

(p)(o) In addition to the civil penalties provided for

in subsection (b), an employer who violates this chapter may

be deemed guilty of a Class B or Class C misdemeanor. A first

conviction shall be deemed a Class C misdemeanor. A second or

subsequent conviction shall be deemed a Class B misdemeanor.

(q)(p) In addition to civil penalties provided for in

subsection (c), an employer who is found in violation of

subsection (c) involving serious physical injury to or death

of a minor may be deemed guilty of a Class B felony or Class C

felony. A first conviction shall be deemed a Class C felony. A

second or subsequent conviction shall be deemed a Class B

felony."

"§25-12-7

(a) This chapter shall not apply to the following

boilers and pressure vessels:
(1) Boilers and pressure vessels under federal control

or under regulations of Title 49 of the Code of Federal

Regulations, Parts 192 and 193.
Page 13

(2) Pressure vessels used for transportation and

storage of compressed or liquefied gases when constructed in

compliance with specifications of the United States Department

of Transportation and when charged with gas or liquid, marked,

maintained, and periodically requalified for use, as required

by appropriate regulations of the United States Department of

Transportation.

(3) Pressure vessels located on vehicles operating

under the rules of other state or federal authorities and used

for carrying passengers or freight.

(4) Air tanks installed on the right of way

right-of-way of railroads and used directly in the operation

of trains.

(5) Pressure vessels that do not exceed any of the
following weights and measures:

a. Five cubic feet in volume and 250 psig pressure.

b. One and one-half cubic feet in volume and 600 psig

pressure.
c. An inside diameter of six inches with no limitation
on pressure.
(6) Pressure vessels having an internal or external
working pressure not exceeding 15 psig with no limit on size.
(7) Pressure vessels with a nominal water containing

water-containing capacity of 120 gallons or less for

containing water under pressure, including those containing

air, the compression of which serves only as a cushion.

(8) Pressure vessels containing water heated by steam
or any other indirect means when none of the following
Page 14

limitations are exceeded:

a. A heat input of 200,000 BTU per hour.

b. A water temperature of 210 degrees Fahrenheit.

c. A nominal water containing water-containing capacity

of 120 gallons.

(9) Hot water supply boilers, equipped with

ASME-National Board approved Board-approved safety relief

valves, which are directly fired with oil, gas, or electricity

when none of the following limitations are exceeded:

a. Heat input of 200,000 BTU per hour.

b. Water temperature of 210 degrees Fahrenheit.

c. Nominal water containing water-containing capacity

of 120 gallons.
(10) Pressure vessels in the care, custody, and control

of research facilities and used solely for research purposes

which require one or more details of noncode construction or

which involve destruction or reduced life expectancy of those

vessels.

(11) Pressure vessels or other structures or components

that are not considered to be within the scope of ASME Code,

Section VIII.

(12) Boilers and pressure vessels operated and

maintained for the production and generation of electricity. A

person, firm, partnership, or corporation operating such a

boiler or pressure vessel shall have insurance or shall be

self-insured. The boiler or pressure vessel shall be regularly

inspected in accordance with the minimum requirements for

safety as defined in the ASME Code by an inspector who has
Page 15

been issued a certificate of competency by the secretary in

accordance with Section 25-12-10.

(13) Boilers and pressure vessels operated and

maintained as a part of a manufacturing process. A person,

firm, partnership, or corporation operating such a boiler or

pressure vessel shall have insurance or shall be self-insured.

(14)(13) Boiler or pressure vessels that are subject to

OSHA standards of compliance.

(15)(14) Boilers and pressure vessels operated and

maintained by a public utility, including, but not limited to,

boilers and pressure vessels operated and maintained for the

production of electricity.

(16)(15) Autoclaves used only for the sterilization of

reusable medical or dental implements in the place of business

of any professional licensed by the laws of this state.

(b) The following boilers and pressure vessels shall be

exempt from the requirements of subsections (b), (c), and (d)

of Section 25-12-14 and Sections 25-12-15 and 25-12-16:

(1) Boilers or pressure vessels located on farms and
used solely for agricultural or horticultural purposes.

(2) Heating boilers or pressure vessels which that are

located in private residences or in apartment houses of less

than six family units.

(3) Any pressure vessel used as an external part of an
electrical circuit breaker or transformer.
(4) Pressure vessels on remote oil or gas-producing

lease locations that have fewer than 10 buildings intended for

human occupancy per 0.25 square mile and where the closest
Page 16

building is at least 220 yards from any vessel.
(5) Pressure vessels used for storage of liquid propane

gas under the jurisdiction of the State Fire Marshal, except

for pressure vessels used for the storage of liquefied

petroleum gas, 2,000 gallons or above, which have been

modified or altered.

(6) Air storage tanks not exceeding 16 cubic feet, 120
gallons, in size, and under 250 psig pressure.
(7) This chapter exempts and shall not regulate any and

all pressure vessels associated in any way with oil, natural

gas, and related by-products, feedstock, and product

manufacturing operations;, including exploration, production,

gas processing, treating refining chemical, pipeline, supply,

storage, and transportation. This subdivision shall not apply

to buildings or businesses, or both, subject to public

utilization."

"§25-12-18

The owner or user of a boiler or pressure vessel

required by this chapter to be inspected by the chief

inspector or his or her deputy inspector shall pay directly to

the chief inspector, upon completion of inspection, fees as

prescribed in rules and regulations promulgated adopted by the

secretary. Pressure vessel certificates of inspection fees

shall not exceed ten dollars ($10) annually. The chief

inspector shall transfer all fees received to a separate fund

in the State Treasury to the credit of the department for its

operation. All funds, pursuant to this chapter, deposited in

the State Treasury shall be appropriated by the Legislature to
Page 17

the Secretary of Labor Workforce pursuant to the Budget

Management Act and Article 4 of Chapter 4 of Title 41. All

fees collected above the appropriated amount shall be

transferred to the General Fund at the end of each fiscal

year."

"§25-13-6

(a) The board may consult with engineering authorities

and organizations concerned with standard safety codes and

rules governing the operation, maintenance, servicing,

construction, alteration, installation, and inspection of

elevators, dumbwaiters, escalators, and the qualifications

which that are adequate, reasonable, and necessary for an

elevator mechanic, contractor, and inspector. Therefore, the

board may recommend the amendments of applicable legislation,

when appropriate, to legislators.

(b) The board shall adopt rules for the equipment

regulated by this chapter. The rules shall include the Safety

Code for Elevators and Escalators, American Society of

Mechanical Engineers (ASME) A17.1; the Safety Code for

Existing Elevators and Escalators, ASME A17.3; the Safety

Standards for Platform Lifts and Stairway Chairlifts, ASME

A18.1; and Automated People Mover Standards, American Society

of Civil Engineers (ASCE) 21. After the date of publishing of

the latest editions of the standards by the ASME, which is

their effective date, the board shall review these editions

within 12 months and determine whether to adopt the editions

in part or in whole. The board shall review the latest

editions of the standards within 12 months of the effective
Page 18

date and determine whether the board will adopt the latest

editions in part, in whole, or not at all. Adoption of the

latest editions shall be effective no less than six months

from the board's review date. Any modifications to the

standards that the administrator deems necessary shall be

justified in writing by the board. After adoption by the

board, the latest editions of the standards by the ASME shall

be effective on a date determined by the board but in no event

more than six months after the board's review date.

(c) The board may grant exceptions and variances from

the literal requirements of applicable code and standards,

rules, or local legislation, or any combination of these, in

cases where the variances would not jeopardize the public

safety and welfare. The board may hear appeals, hold hearings,

and decide upon appeals within 30 days of the appeal.

(d) The board shall establish fee schedules for

licenses, permits, certificates, and inspections. The fees

shall reflect the actual costs and expenses to conduct the

duties as described in this chapter. All fees collected by the

administrator pursuant to this chapter shall be remitted to

the Elevator Safety Review Board Operational Fund in the State

Treasury to the credit of the board for its operation and for

the operation of the Department of LaborDepartment of

Workforce. Any funds appropriated for the operation of the

board that are not needed for current operations as determined

by the administrator and within the appropriation ceiling of

the board may be used for operation of the department. All

fees collected in the Elevator Safety Review Board Operational
Page 19

Fund above the appropriated amount shall be transferred to the

State General Fund within one quarter after the end of each

fiscal year.

(e) In addition, the administrator may transfer unused

funds in the Elevator Safety Review Board Operational Fund to

the State General Fund. The Elevator Safety Review Board shall

do all of the following:

(1) Require new elevator installations to comply with

the most recent elevator safety codes and standards in effect

when the building construction permit was issued or at the

time of the final approval by the Division of Construction

Management.

(2) Require elevator modifications or alterations to

comply with the most recent elevator safety codes and

standards that are in effect at the time the elevator permit

is issued."

"§25-13-12

(a) Upon approval of an application, the administrator

may issue a license which that shall be renewable biennially

annually. The fee for such the license and for any renewal

thereafter shall be set by the board.

(b) Whenever an emergency exists in the state due to

disaster, act of God, or work stoppage and the number of

persons in the state holding licenses granted by the

administrator is insufficient to cope with the emergency, the

licensed elevator contractors shall respond as necessary to

assure the safety of the public. Any person certified by a

licensed elevator contractor to have an acceptable combination
Page 20

of documented experience and education to perform elevator

work without direct and immediate supervision shall seek an

emergency elevator mechanic license from the administrator

within five business days after commencing work requiring a

license. The administrator shall issue emergency elevator

mechanic licenses. The licensed elevator contractor shall

furnish proof of competency as the administrator may require.

Each such license shall recite that it is valid for a period

of 30 90 days from the date of issuance for particular

elevators or geographical areas as the administrator may

designate and shall entitle the licensee to the rights and

privileges of an elevator mechanic license issued in this

chapter. The administrator shall renew an emergency elevator

mechanic license during the existence of an emergency. No fee

shall be charged for any emergency elevator mechanic license

or renewal thereof.

(c) A licensed elevator contractor shall notify the

administrator when there are no licensed personnel available

to perform elevator work. The licensed elevator contractor may

request that the administrator issue temporary elevator

mechanic licenses to persons certified by the licensed

elevator contractor to have an acceptable combination of

documented experience and education to perform elevator work

without direct and immediate supervision. Any person certified

by the licensed elevator contractor to have an acceptable

combination of documented experience and education to perform

elevator work without direct and immediate supervision shall

immediately seek a temporary elevator mechanic license from
Page 21

the administrator and shall pay such the fee as the board

shall determinedetermines. Each such license shall recite that

it is valid for 30 180 days from the date of issuance and

while the person is employed by the licensed elevator

contractor who certified the individual person as qualified.

The license shall be renewable as long as the shortage of

license holders shall continue.

(d)(1) The renewal of all licenses granted under this

section shall be conditioned upon the submission of a

certificate of completion of a course designed to ensure the

continuing education of licensees on new and existing

provisions of the regulations of the board. The course shall

consist of not less than eight hours of instruction and shall

be attended and completed within one year immediately

preceding any such license renewal.

(2) The course shall be taught by instructors through

continuing education providers and may include, but not be

limited to, association seminars and labor training programs.

The board shall approve the continuing education providers.

All instructors shall be approved by the board and exempt from

the requirements of the preceding paragraph with regard to

application for license renewal, provided that the applicant

was qualified as an instructor at any time during the year

immediately preceding the scheduled date for such renewal.

(3) A licensee who is unable to complete the continuing

education course required under this section prior to the

expiration of his or her license due to a temporary disability

may apply for a waiver from the board. This shall be on a form
Page 22

provided by the board which shall be signed under the

penalties of perjury and accompanied by a certified statement

from a competent physician attesting to the temporary

disability. Upon the termination of the temporary disability,

the licensee shall submit to the board a certified statement

from the same physician, if practicable, attesting to the

termination of the temporary disability. At that time a waiver

sticker, valid for 90 days, shall be issued to the licensee

and affixed to his or her license.

(4) Approved training providers shall keep uniform

records, for a period of 10 years, of attendance of licensees

following a format approved by the board, and the records

shall be available for inspection by the board. Approved

training providers shall be responsible for the security of

all attendance records and certificates of completion;,

provided, however, that falsifying or knowingly allowing

another to falsify such attendance records or certificates of

completion shall constitute grounds for suspension or

revocation of the approval required under this section."

"§25-13-15

(a) It shall be the responsibility of individuals,

firms, or corporations licensed by this chapter to ensure that

installation and/or service and maintenance of elevators and

devices described in Section 25-13-1 are performed in

compliance with the provisions contained in the state fire

prevention and building codes and with generally accepted

standards referenced in the code.

(b)(1) No company or individual licensed by this
Page 23

chapter shall make alterations to any conveyance, including

software updates, parameter adjustments, programming changes,

etc. unless the individual is physically on property to

witness and verify that any and all changes result in code

compliance and a safe mode of operation.

(2) At no time shall any action in subdivision (1) be

performed off-site or from a remote location. Remote

interaction is not allowed on any conveyance in the State of

Alabama."

Section 2. This act shall become effective on October
1, 2026.

Page 24
