House Bill 1119
By: Representatives Carpenter of the 4th, Bonner of the 73rd, Stephens of the 164th, Gullett
of the 19th, and Yearta of the 152nd

A BILL TO BE ENTITLED
AN ACT

To amend Chapter 9 of Title 34 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, relating to

workers' compensation, so as to provide for pharmacy care guidelines and pharmacy

management networks under workers' compensation; to provide limitations for providers

prescribing certain medications; to provide for limitations for providers dispensing certain

medications; to provide for reimbursement; to provide for pharmacy management networks;

to provide for notice; to provide for any willing dispensing provider to join a network; to

provide for registration; to provide for a registration fee; to provide for requirements; to

provide for exemption; to provide for definitions; to provide for rules and regulations; to

provide for related matters; to provide for an effective date; to repeal conflicting laws; and

for other purposes.

BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF GEORGIA:

SECTION 1.

Chapter 9 of Title 34 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, relating to workers'

compensation, is amended in Part 1 of Article 6, relating to medical attention for payment

of compensation, by adding new Code sections to read as follows:

"34-9-201.1.

(a) As used in this Code section, the term:

(1) 'Compounded medication' means a custom made prescription drug prepared by a

pharmacist or dispensing provider by mixing or altering ingredients to fit a patient's

unique needs.

(2) 'Dispensing provider' means an individual who is a licensed pharmacist or licensed

physician.

(3) 'Off-label medication' means a prescription drug used for a condition, age group,

dosage, or route not listed in its official label.

(4) 'Pharmacy care' means those services related to the interpretation, evaluation, or

dispensing of prescription drug orders; the participation in drug and device selection,

drug administration, and drug regimen reviews; and the provision of related patient

counseling.

(5) 'Pharmacy management network' means a group or groups of participating dispensing

providers contracted by an employer to provide pharmacy care to injured workers

receiving benefits under workers' compensation.

(b) An employer may provide pharmacy care to injured employees receiving benefits

under workers' compensation through a pharmacy management network or through such

employee's choice of pharmacy or dispensing provider.

(c) Any prescribing provider providing pharmacy care to an injured employee applying

for or receiving benefits under workers' compensation shall prescribe medications in

accordance with the provisions of this chapter and board rules. Such provider shall:

(1) Document medical necessity, obtain prior authorization, and be limited to prescribing

a 30 day supply for any off-label medication; and

(2) Document consideration of commercially available drugs that are approved by the

federal Food and Dug Administration and medical reasons for any compounded

medication, obtain prior authorization for such medication, and be limited to prescribing

a 90 day supply total to be provided in 30 day supply increments for such medication.

(d) Any dispensing provider providing pharmacy care to an injured employee applying for

or receiving workers' compensation benefits in the first seven days following the date of

injury shall dispense medications in accordance with the provisions of this chapter and

board rules. Dispensing shall be limited to:

(1) A single five-day supply for Schedule II and Schedule III drugs; and

(2) A single 14 day supply for all other medications.

(e) Reimbursement for a dispensing provider shall be in accordance with the fee schedule

established by the board; provided, however, that dispensing providers contracted with a

pharmacy management network shall not be subject to the limitations or reimbursement

standards provided in this Code section and may dispense medications to injured

employees based on the provisions in the pharmacy management network contract.

(f) The board is authorized to promulgate rules necessary for the administration of this

Code section.

34-9-201.2.

(a) As used in this Code section, the term:

(1)

Section 34-9-201.1.

(2) 'Pharmacy care' shall have the same meaning as set forth in Code Section 34-9-201.1.

(3) 'Pharmacy management network' shall have the same meaning as set forth in Code

Section 34-9-201.1.

(b) An employer may establish or contract with a pharmacy management network to

provide pharmacy care to injured employees receiving benefits under workers'

compensation; provided, however, that, if such employer requires such care to be provided

exclusively through such network, such employer shall provide notice as follows:

'Dispensing provider' shall have the same meaning as set forth in Code

(1) When the pharmacy management network is first established, the employer shall

provide notice to all employees, either by posting in a prominent location in the

workplace or by providing in paper or electronic format, information about and processes

for filling a prescription through such network; and

(2) When a reported injury occurs, the employer shall provide notice to the employee,

either by providing in paper or electronic format, information about the requirements to

use such network and information on dispensing providers participating in such network.

(c) If an employer complies with the provisions of subsection (b) of this Code section, any

injured employee can obtain medications that are medically necessary, compliant with

pharmacy care guidelines provided for in Code Section 34-9-201.1, and related to a

compensable claim from his or her choice of dispensing provider or a dispensing provider

participating in the pharmacy management network; provided, however, that, if such

medications are obtained from a dispensing provider that is not part of such network, they

shall be reimbursed at the fee schedule amount established by the board until such

dispensing provider is provided notice by the employer or the pharmacy management

network that:

(1) The injured employee is required to obtain pharmacy care through a dispensing

provider participating in the pharmacy management network;

(2) Future pharmacy care through such dispensing provider shall not be reimbursed; and

(3) The dispensing provider is invited to join such network, provided that such network

shall accept as part of the network any dispensing provider that is licensed, in good

standing, and willing to contract with such network and abide by the contract terms with

such network.

(d) Any pharmacy management networks providing pharmacy care for injured employees

pursuant to this Code section shall register with the board and pay a licensing fee in an

amount established by the board sufficient to cover administration of the provisions of this

Code section.

(e) A pharmacy management network shall:

(1) Provide a timely process for participating dispensing providers to dispute a denial or

the amount of reimbursement of a pharmacy bill;

(2)

reimbursement amounts different from the fee schedule amount established by the board;

(3) Not charge participating dispensing providers any fees, direct or indirect, associated

with dispensing, processing, or billing for a prescription drug dispensed to an injured

employee or any fee related to the enrollment or annual reenrollment of a participating

dispensing provider in such network;

(4) Offer a mail order option for injured employees to obtain medications;

(5) Perform any audits of dispensing providers in accordance with the audit provisions

in Code Section 26-4-118, 'The Pharmacy Audit Bill of Rights'; and

(6) Reimburse pharmacy processing agents or third-party billers accepting assignment

of bills from participating dispensing providers at the contractual amount agreed upon

with the assigning dispensing provider.

(f) For claims that are controverted or being disputed for compensability, any injured

employee shall not be required to use a dispensing provider in the pharmacy management

network until such time as compensability is established and notice of compensability is

provided to such employee.

(g) Registered pharmacy management networks providing pharmacy care under this Code

section are exempt from the provisions of Article 2 of Chapter 23 of Title 33, relating to

licensing of administrators, and the provisions of Chapter 64 of Title 33, relating to the

regulation and licensure of pharmacy benefit managers.

(h) The board is authorized to promulgate rules necessary for the administration of this

Code section."

Reimburse participating dispensing providers promptly but may contract for

SECTION 2.

This Act shall become effective on January 1, 2027.

SECTION 3.

All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this Act are repealed.
