{As Amended by House Committee of the Whole}
(Corrected)
Session of 2026

House Substitute for SENATE BILL No. 229
By Committee on Commerce, Labor and Economic Development
3-3

AN ACT concerning labor and employment; relating to the employment
security law; providing amendments, suspensions or repeals of
employment security law provisions should follow specified review
procedures by legislative committees of both houses; authorizing the
secretary of labor to recognize and approve employer-sponsored
supplemental unemployment benefit plans if such plans meet specific
criteria, including compliance with federal guidance and being
employer funded; ensuring that supplemental unemployment benefit
plans do not disqualify employees from state unemployment benefits;
requiring the secretary to maintain a registry of authorized plans and
monitor the impact of such plans on the employment security trust
fund; updating terminology and reorganizing sections for improved
readability and compliance; enhancing federal conformity by
incorporating references to federal laws and guidelines; integrating
supplemental unemployment benefit plans into the current statutory
framework; authorizing the secretary to adopt rules and regulations for
supplemental unemployment benefits; updating provisions pertaining to
temporary unemployment benefits and benefit exhaustion; providing
that such benefits may extend for up to eight weeks; refining rate table
and experience-rating provisions; discontinuing certain debt-relief
provisions for negative balance employers; updating provisions for
determining suitable work and disqualification conditions for
unemployment benefits; {enhancing electronic filing provisions;
updating and clarifying certain definitions;} providing for certain
publication and data reporting duties of the secretary; {clarifying}
criminal provisions and penalties for fraud; consolidating provisions of
the employment security insurance act for domestic violence survivors
and repealing redundant sections; amending K.S.A. 44-701, 44-702,
44-704a, 44-704b, 44-710d, 44-710e, 44-710f, 44-710i, 44-711, 44712, 44-713, 44-713a, 44-714, 44-715, 44-716, 44-716a, 44-718, 44719, 44-720, 44-721, 44-722, 44-723, 44-724, 44-725, 44-727, 44-758,
44-760, 44-765, 44-766, 44-767, 44-768, 44-769, 44-770, 44-773 and
44-777 and K.S.A. 2025 Supp. 44-703, 44-704, 44-705, 44-706, 44710, 44-710a, 44-710b, 44-717, 44-772, 44-774, 44-775 and 79-3234

H Sub SB 229—Am. by HCW

and repealing the existing sections; also repealing K.S.A. 44-706a, 44761, 44-762, 44-763 and 44-764.
Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Kansas:
New Section 1. (a) The legislature intends that all provisions of the
Kansas employment security law be administered with transparency,
consistency and fiscal integrity with an emphasis on long-term
perspectives. The legislature finds that, to facilitate this intent,
amendments by the legislature to employment security law benefit
eligibility, definitions, benefit duration or administrative procedures shall
be made only upon review and consideration by the legislature pursuant to
subsection (c). The legislature further finds that employment security law
eligibility, definitions, benefit duration or administrative procedures shall
not be amended, suspended or repealed by budget provisos, appropriations
bills or temporary fiscal measures, unless the procedures for review and
consideration provided by subsection (c) have been followed with respect
to such action by a committee responsible for labor, budget or economic
development policy of both chambers. Alternatively, the legislature finds
that the intent of this act will be met upon consideration, at a hearing and
prior to taking action, of the record of such a review and consideration
made by another committee responsible for labor, budget or economic
development policy of the same chamber.
(b) Except upon review and consideration as provided by subsections
(a) and (c), no provision of any budget provisos, appropriations bills or
temporary fiscal measures shall:
(1) Amend the definition of "unemployment," "employment,"
"employer," "employee" or any other term defined in K.S.A. 44-703, and
amendments thereto, for purposes of the employment security law;
(2) expand, limit, restrict or modify eligibility requirements for
unemployment insurance benefits, including, but not limited to, duration
of benefits, work search requirements, temporary unemployment status,
waivers or exemptions for specific employee groups or reemployment
program participation;
(3) create special classifications, selective exemptions or exceptions
to any provisions of the employment security law for specific groups of
employees, employers or industries, including, but not limited to, such
groups that are subject to collective bargaining agreements; or
(4) alter any provision affecting the administration, funding, solvency
or disbursement criteria of the employment security trust fund.
(c) Any proposed change to unemployment compensation eligibility,
benefit structure or program administration pursuant to subsection (b) shall
be enacted through an amendment to the employment security law made
upon a thorough and comprehensive legislative review to the extent

H Sub SB 229—Am. by HCW

practicable, including, at a minimum:
(1) A formal actuarial impact analysis to assess potential effects on
the unemployment insurance trust fund;
(2) opportunity for public comment, with adequate notice and
opportunity for stakeholder input from employers, labor representatives,
economists and the public;
(3) hearings by the standing committees of both chambers responsible
for labor, budget or economic development policy, with opportunity for
testimony by stakeholders, including employers, labor organizations,
workforce development representatives and employment security law
experts; and
(4) legislative debate and vote in accordance with the full customary
legislative process for amending statutory law.
(d) It is the intent of the legislature that substantive provisions of the
employment security law control unless the legislature expressly provides
otherwise.
(e) Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the legislature's
plenary authority to amend, suspend or repeal any provision of the
employment security law through subsequent legislative enactment.
(f) Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit the
legislature from enacting temporary measures affecting the employment
security law in response to a declared emergency. Any such measures shall
be expressly time limited and subject to subsequent legislative review and
action pursuant to this section.
(g) This section shall be a part of and supplemental to the
employment security law.
New Sec. 2. (a) It is the intent of the legislature to support
responsible workforce transition strategies during periods of temporary
layoffs while safeguarding the fiscal integrity of the unemployment
insurance system. Employer-sponsored supplemental unemployment
benefit plans meeting the requirements of this section, as determined by
the secretary of labor and accordingly authorized by the secretary, shall
serve as a voluntary, employer-funded mechanism to supplement state
unemployment compensation benefits.
(b) Employers may establish supplemental unemployment benefit
plans to provide income support to employees who are involuntarily laid
off due to lack of work and eligible for state unemployment insurance
benefits. The secretary shall recognize and authorize such plans if, in the
secretary's judgment, such plans:
(1) Are properly documented in writing and filed with the secretary
prior to implementation;
(2) comply with applicable federal guidance, including United States
internal revenue service rulings 56-249 and 90-72, and satisfy relevant

H Sub SB 229—Am. by HCW

requirements of 26 U.S.C. § 501(c)(17) concerning trust arrangements for
supplemental unemployment compensation benefits;
(3) are funded entirely by the employer, and the supplemental
unemployment benefits do not constitute wages for purposes of state
unemployment insurance calculations;
(4) do not disqualify laid-off employees from receiving state
unemployment insurance benefits;
(5) provide supplemental unemployment benefits to laid-off
employees in periodic payments that align with the state unemployment
insurance benefit schedule. Lump-sum distributions shall not qualify as
valid supplemental unemployment plan payments; and
(6) terminate supplemental unemployment benefit payments when
laid-off employees become reemployed, are no longer eligible for state
unemployment benefits or otherwise fail to meet eligibility criteria
established by the plan or rules and regulations adopted by the secretary
pursuant to subsection (g).
(c) (1) Notwithstanding any other provision of the employment
security law, laid-off employees shall not be denied unemployment
insurance benefits or have such benefits reduced, offset or otherwise
limited solely because such employees are receiving payments from
employer-sponsored supplemental unemployment benefit plans if, as
determined by the secretary, such plans:
(A) Meet the requirements of subsection (b), including that such
plans:
(i) Are funded entirely by the employer;
(ii) are provided only to employees who are unemployed due to lack
of work and are eligible for state benefits under the employment security
law;
(iii) supplement rather than replace state unemployment
compensation; and
(iv) are not paid in a lump sum or in lieu of wages; and
(B) comply with the criteria set forth in 26 U.S.C. § 3306(b)(9),
United States internal revenue service revenue rulings 56-249 and 90-72
and applicable federal guidance.
(2) Payments made pursuant to supplemental unemployment benefit
plans meeting the requirements of subsections (b) and (c), as determined
by the secretary, shall not be considered wages or remuneration for
purposes of eligibility or disqualification for state unemployment
insurance benefits, the waiting week or the calculation of weekly benefit
amounts pursuant to the employment security law.
(3) This subsection shall be construed to be in conformity with 26
U.S.C. § 3304(a)(4) and 42 U.S.C. § 503(a) and interpreted in accordance
with United States department of labor conformity guidance.

H Sub SB 229—Am. by HCW

(d) The secretary shall maintain and publish a registry on the
secretary's website of authorized supplemental unemployment benefit
plans submitted by employers to the secretary and may offer technical
guidance to assist employers in developing compliant plans.
(e) (1) The secretary shall monitor the interaction between
supplemental unemployment benefit plans and state unemployment
insurance claims to ensure continued solvency of the employment security
trust fund.
(2) For the fiscal year beginning on July 1, 2025, and each fiscal year
thereafter, the secretary shall publish the following information for the
fiscal year on the secretary's website on or before December 1 following
the end of such fiscal year, in conjunction with the information required to
be published on such website by K.S.A. 44-774, and amendments thereto.
Additionally, the secretary shall report such information to the legislature
at the beginning of each next succeeding legislative session. Such
information shall include:
(A) The number of active supplemental unemployment benefit plans
on file;
(B) aggregate claimant data for laid-off employees concurrently
receiving supplemental unemployment benefits and state unemployment
insurance benefits; and
(C) any actuarial analysis or findings concerning the impact of
supplemental unemployment benefit plan usage on the employment
security trust fund.
(3) If the secretary finds that supplemental unemployment benefit
plan usage materially increases unemployment insurance costs that may
affect the employment security trust fund for all other rated employers, the
secretary shall advise the legislature in the report submitted pursuant to
paragraph (2) and recommend modifications to program regulations or
propose statutory amendments to mitigate adverse impacts.
(f) This section shall apply uniformly to all employers and
employees, regardless of union affiliation, industry classification or
business size. The secretary and the employer shall administer
supplemental unemployment benefit plans without discrimination and
shall not provide disproportionate or preferential treatment to officers,
executives or specific classes of employees except as may be required by
federal law.
(g) The secretary shall adopt rules and regulations as necessary to
implement and administer this section, including, but not limited to:
(1) Procedures for submission, review and approval of supplemental
unemployment benefit plans;
(2) employer reporting and documentation requirements;
(3) oversight and audit mechanisms to ensure plan compliance and

H Sub SB 229—Am. by HCW

fiscal responsibility; and
(4) alignment with federal standards. All rules and regulations
adopted by the secretary pursuant to this section shall conform to the
requirements of 26 U.S.C. § 3304, 42 U.S.C. § 503 and any conformity
guidance issued by the United States department of labor that is necessary
to maintain state certification and eligibility for federal tax offset and
administrative funding.
(h) This section and all other provisions of the employment security
law relating to supplemental unemployment insurance plans shall be
liberally construed to promote transparency, solvency and fair access to
unemployment compensation. The secretary shall ensure that all policies,
procedures and enforcement actions related to the recognition, operation
and administration of supplemental unemployment benefit plans are
consistent with federal law and guidance issued by the United States
department of labor, including all conformity and compliance criteria that
are necessary to maintain the state's certification under 26 U.S.C. § 3304.
(i) This section shall be a part of and supplemental to the employment
security law.
Sec. 3. K.S.A. 44-701 is hereby amended to read as follows: 44-701.
This act K.S.A. 44-701 through 44-777, and amendments thereto, and
sections 1 and 2, and amendments thereto, shall be known and may be
cited as the "employment security law."
Sec. 4. K.S.A. 44-702 is hereby amended to read as follows: 44-702.
(a) As a guide to the interpretation and application of this act the
employment security law, the public policy of this state is declared to be as
follows:
(1) Economic insecurity, due to caused by involuntary
unemployment, is poses a serious menace threat to the health, morals,
well-being and welfare of the people of this state. Involuntary
unemployment is therefore a subject economic stability of individuals,
families and communities throughout Kansas. Unemployment is a matter
of general interest and concern that requires appropriate action by the
legislature requiring proactive legislative measures to reduce its impact
and prevent its spread and.
(2) (A) The legislature finds that achieving economic security for
Kansans includes the establishment of a compulsory unemployment
insurance system. The primary goals of this system are to lighten its
burden that now so often falls with crushing force upon the:
(i) Provide financial stability to unemployed worker and such
worker's family. The achievement of social security requires protection
against this greatest hazard of our economic life. This can be provided
workers;
(ii) stabilize the economy during downturns by maintaining consumer

H Sub SB 229—Am. by HCW

purchasing power; and
(iii) encourage reemployment through active job search requirements
and coordinated workforce services.
(B) These goals are supported by encouraging employers to provide
more stable employment and by requiring the systematic accumulation of
funds unemployment insurance reserves, funded through employer
contributions during periods of active employment. Such reserves are used
to provide benefits for temporary wage replacement for eligible
individuals during periods of unemployment, thus maintaining purchasing
power and limiting the serious social consequences of poor-relief
joblessness, helping to sustain economic activity and reduce reliance on
public assistance programs. The legislature, therefore, declares that in its
considered judgment the public good and the general welfare of the
citizens of this state require the enactment of this measure,
(b) The employment security law is enacted under the police powers
of the state, for to promote the compulsory setting aside general welfare of
the citizens of the state of Kansas and to ensure the responsible and
equitable administration of unemployment reserves to be used for the
benefit of persons unemployed compensation benefits.
(c) The state of Kansas is committed to maintaining and
strengthening equitable access to the unemployment compensation
insurance system, including through fair and timely processing of both
initial and continuing claims. All persons individuals and employers are
entitled to a neutral, transparent and impartial interpretation of the
employment security law.
(d) The administration of the employment security law shall align
with applicable federal standards and shall be coordinated with state
workforce development initiatives to support timely reemployment,
economic resilience and long-term public confidence in the unemployment
insurance system.
(e) (1) The administration and interpretation of the employment
security law shall remain in conformity with applicable federal laws and
guidance to ensure continued federal certification of Kansas'
unemployment compensation program, including, but not limited to:
(A) 20 C.F.R. part 603, which concerns confidentiality and disclosure
of unemployment compensation information;
(B) 20 C.F.R. part 625, which concerns disaster unemployment
assistance;
(C) 2 C.F.R. part 200, which concerns uniform administrative
requirements for federal grants; and
(D) the edition in force of the employment and training
administration handbook No. 401, which concerns unemployment
insurance state quality service plan and reporting requirements.

H Sub SB 229—Am. by HCW

(2) These references shall guide state agency implementation,
recordkeeping and benefit administration to ensure continued federal
certification and funding eligibility.
Sec. 5. K.S.A. 2025 Supp. 44-703 is hereby amended to read as
follows: 44-703. As used in this act the employment security law, unless
the context clearly requires otherwise:
(a) (1) "Annual payroll" means the total amount of wages paid or
payable by an employer during the calendar year.
(2) "Average annual payroll" means the average of the annual
payrolls of any employer for the last three calendar years immediately
preceding the computation date as hereinafter defined if the employer has
been continuously subject to contributions during those three calendar
years and has paid some wages for employment during each of such years.
In determining contribution rates for the calendar year, if an employer has
not been continuously subject to contribution for the three calendar years
immediately preceding the computation date but has paid wages subject to
contributions during only the two calendar years immediately preceding
the computation date, such employer's "average annual payroll" shall be
the average of the payrolls for those two calendar years.
(3) "Total wages" means the total amount of wages paid or payable
by an employer during the calendar year, including that part of
remuneration in excess of the limitation prescribed as provided in
subsection (o)(1).
(b) "Base period" means the first four of the last five completed
calendar quarters immediately preceding the first day of an individual's
benefit year, except that the base period in respect to combined wage
claims means the base period as defined in the law of the paying state.
(1) If an individual lacks sufficient base period wages in order to
establish a benefit year in the manner set forth above and satisfies the
requirements of subsection (hh) and K.S.A. 44-705(g), and amendments
thereto, the claimant shall have an alternative base period substituted for
the current base period so as not to prevent establishment of a valid claim.
For the purposes of this subsection, "alternative base period" means the
last four completed quarters immediately preceding the date the qualifying
injury occurred. In the event the wages in the alternative base period have
been used on a prior claim, then they shall be excluded from the new
alternative base period.
(2) For the purposes of this chapter, the term "base period" includes
the alternative base period.
(c) (1) "Benefits" means the money payments payable to an
individual, as provided in this act, with respect to such individual's
unemployment.
(2) "Regular benefits" means benefits payable to an individual under

H Sub SB 229—Am. by HCW

this act or under any other state law, including benefits payable to federal
civilian employees and to ex-servicemen pursuant to 5 U.S.C. chapter 85,
other than extended benefits.
(d) "Benefit year" with respect to any individual, means the period
beginning with the Sunday of the first week for which such individual files
a valid claim for benefits, and such benefit year shall continue for one full
year. In the case of a combined wage claim, the benefit year shall be the
benefit year of the paying state. Following the termination of a benefit
year, a subsequent benefit year shall commence on the Sunday of the first
week with respect to which an individual next files a claim for benefits.
Any claim for benefits made in accordance with K.S.A. 44-709(a), and
amendments thereto, shall be deemed to be a "valid claim" for the
purposes of this subsection if the individual has been paid wages for
insured work as required under K.S.A. 44-705(e), and amendments
thereto.
(e) "Commissioner" or "secretary" means the secretary of labor.
(f) (1) "Contributions" means the money payments to the state
employment security fund that are required to be made by employers on
account of employment under K.S.A. 44-710, and amendments thereto,
and voluntary payments made by employers pursuant to such statute.
(2) "Payments in lieu of contributions" means the money payments to
the state employment security fund from employers that are required to
make or that elect to make such payments under K.S.A. 44-710(e), and
amendments thereto.
(g) "Employing unit" means any individual or type of organization,
including any partnership, association, limited liability company, agency
or department of the state of Kansas and political subdivisions thereof,
trust, estate, joint-stock company, insurance company or corporation,
whether domestic or foreign including nonprofit corporations, or the
receiver, trustee in bankruptcy, trustee or successor thereof, or the legal
representatives of a deceased person, that has in its employ one or more
individuals performing services for it within this state. All individuals
performing services within this state for any employing unit that maintains
two or more separate establishments within this state shall be deemed to be
employed by a single employing unit for all the purposes of this act. Each
individual employed to perform or to assist in performing the work of any
agent or employee of an employing unit shall be deemed to be employed
by such employing unit for all the purposes of this act, whether such
individual was hired or paid directly by such employing unit or by such
agent or employee, provided the employing unit had actual or constructive
knowledge of the employment.
(h) "Employer" means:
(1) (A) Any employing unit for which agricultural labor as defined in

H Sub SB 229—Am. by HCW

subsection (w) is performed and during any calendar quarter in either the
current or preceding calendar year paid remuneration in cash of $20,000 or
more to individuals employed in agricultural labor or for some portion of a
day in each of 20 different calendar weeks, whether or not such weeks
were consecutive, in either the current or the preceding calendar year,
employed in agricultural labor 10 or more individuals, regardless of
whether they were employed at the same moment of time.
(B) For the purpose of this subsection (h)(1), any individual who is a
member of a crew furnished by a crew leader to perform services in
agricultural labor for any other person shall be treated as an employee of
such crew leader if:
(i) Such crew leader holds a valid certificate of registration under the
federal migrant and seasonal agricultural workers protection act or
substantially all the members of such crew operate or maintain tractors,
mechanized harvesting or cropdusting equipment or any other mechanized
equipment, that is provided by such crew leader; and
(ii) such individual is not in the employment of such other person
within the meaning of subsection (i).
(C) For the purpose of this subsection (h)(1), in the case of any
individual who is furnished by a crew leader to perform services in
agricultural labor for any other person and who is not treated as an
employee of such crew leader:
(i) Such other person and not the crew leader shall be treated as the
employer of such individual; and
(ii) such other person shall be treated as having paid cash
remuneration to such individual in an amount equal to the amount of cash
remuneration paid to such individual by the crew leader, either on the crew
leader's own behalf or on behalf of such other person, for the services in
agricultural labor performed for such other person.
(D) For the purposes of this subsection (h)(1) "crew leader" means an
individual who:
(i) Furnishes individuals to perform services in agricultural labor for
any other person;
(ii) pays, either on such individual's own behalf or on behalf of such
other person, the individuals so furnished by such individual for the
services in agricultural labor performed by them; and
(iii) has not entered into a written agreement with such other person
under which such individual is designated as an employee of such other
person.
(2) (A) Any employing unit that for calendar year 2007 and each
calendar year thereafter: (i) In any calendar quarter in either the current or
preceding calendar year paid for services in employment wages of $1,500
or more; (ii) for some portion of a day in each of 20 different calendar

H Sub SB 229—Am. by HCW

weeks, whether or not such weeks were consecutive, in either the current
or preceding calendar year, had in employment at least one individual,
whether or not the same individual was in employment in each such day;
or (iii) elects to have an unemployment tax account established at the time
of initial registration in accordance with K.S.A. 44-711(c), and
amendments thereto.
(B) Employment of individuals to perform domestic service or
agricultural labor and wages paid for such service or labor shall not be
considered in determining whether an employing unit meets the criteria of
this subsection (h)(2).
(3) Any employing unit for which service is employment as defined
in subsection (i)(3)(E).
(4) (A) Any employing unit, whether or not it is an employing unit
under subsection (g), that acquires or in any manner succeeds to: (i)
Substantially all of the employing enterprises, organization, trade or
business; or (ii) substantially all the assets, of another employing unit that
at the time of such acquisition was an employer subject to this act;
(B) any employing unit that is controlled substantially, either directly
or indirectly by legally enforceable means or otherwise, by the same
interest or interests, whether or not such interest or interests are an
employing unit under subsection (g), acquires or in any manner succeeds
to a portion of an employer's annual payroll, is less than 100% of such
employer's annual payroll, and intends to continue the acquired portion as
a going business.
(5) Any employing unit that paid cash remuneration of $1,000 or
more in any calendar quarter in the current or preceding calendar year to
individuals employed in domestic service as defined in subsection (aa).
(6) Any employing unit that having become an employer under this
subsection (h) has not, under K.S.A. 44-711(b), and amendments thereto,
ceased to be an employer subject to this act.
(7) Any employing unit that has elected to become fully subject to
this act in accordance with K.S.A. 44-711(c), and amendments thereto.
(8) Any employing unit not an employer by reason of any other
paragraph of this subsection (h), for which within either the current or
preceding calendar year services in employment are or were performed
with respect to which such employing unit is liable for any federal tax
against which credit may be taken for contributions required to be paid
into a state unemployment compensation fund; or that, as a condition for
approval of this act for full tax credit against the tax imposed by the
federal unemployment tax act, is required, pursuant to such act, to be an
"employer" under this act.
(9) Any employing unit described in section 501(c)(3) of the federal
internal revenue code of 1986 that is exempt from income tax under

H Sub SB 229—Am. by HCW

section 501(a) of the code that had four or more individuals in
employment for some portion of a day in each of 20 different weeks,
whether or not such weeks were consecutive, within either the current or
preceding calendar year, regardless of whether they were employed at the
same moment of time.
(i) "Employment" means:
(1) Subject to the other provisions of this subsection, service,
including services in interstate commerce, performed by:
(A) Any active officer of a corporation;
(B) any individual who, under the usual common law rules applicable
in determining the employer-employee relationship, has the status of an
employee subject to the provisions of subsection (i)(3)(D); or
(C) any individual other than an individual who is an employee under
subsection (i)(1)(A) or subsection (i)(1)(B) above who performs services
for remuneration for any person:
(i) As an agent-driver or commission-driver engaged in distributing
meat products, vegetable products, fruit products, bakery products,
beverages, other than milk, or laundry or dry-cleaning services, for such
individual's principal; or
(ii) as a traveling or city salesman, other than as an agent-driver or
commission-driver, engaged upon a full-time basis in the solicitation on
behalf of, and the transmission to, a principal, except for side-line sales
activities on behalf of some other person, of orders from wholesalers,
retailers, contractors, or operators of hotels, restaurants, or other similar
establishments for merchandise for resale or supplies for use in their
business operations.
For purposes of subsection (i)(1)(C), the term "employment" includes
services described in paragraphs (i) and (ii) above only if:
(a) The contract of service contemplates that substantially all of the
services are to be performed personally by such individual;
(b) the individual does not have a substantial investment in facilities
used in connection with the performance of the services, other than in
facilities for transportation; and
(c) the services are not in the nature of a single transaction that is not
part of a continuing relationship with the person for whom the services are
performed.
(2) The term "employment" includes an individual's entire service
within the United States, even though performed entirely outside this state
if:
(A) The service is not localized in any state;
(B) the individual is one of a class of employees who are required to
travel outside this state in performance of their duties; and
(C) the individual's base of operations is in this state, or if there is no

H Sub SB 229—Am. by HCW

base of operations, then the place where service is directed or controlled is
in this state.
(3) The term "employment" also includes:
(A) Services performed within this state but not covered by the
provisions of subsection (i)(1) or subsection (i)(2) shall be deemed to be
employment subject to this act if contributions are not required and paid
with respect to such services under an unemployment compensation law of
any other state or of the federal government.
(B) Services performed entirely without this state, with respect to no
part of which contributions are required and paid under an unemployment
compensation law of any other state or of the federal government, shall be
deemed to be employment subject to this act only if the individual
performing such services is a resident of this state and the secretary
approved the election of the employing unit for whom such services are
performed that the entire service of such individual shall be deemed to be
employment subject to this act.
(C) Services covered by an arrangement pursuant to K.S.A. 44714(j), and amendments thereto, between the secretary and the agency
charged with the administration of any other state or federal
unemployment compensation law, pursuant to which all services
performed by an individual for an employing unit are deemed to be
performed entirely within this state, shall be deemed to be employment if
the secretary has approved an election of the employing unit for whom
such services are performed, pursuant to which the entire service of such
individual during the period covered by such election is deemed to be
insured work.
(D) Services performed by an individual for wages or under any
contract of hire shall be deemed to be employment subject to this act if the
business for which activities of the individual are performed retains not
only the right to control the end result of the activities performed, but the
manner and means by which the end result is accomplished.
(E) Services performed by an individual in the employ of a state or
any instrumentality thereof, any political subdivision of a state or any
instrumentality thereof, or in the employ of an Indian tribe, as defined
pursuant to section 3306(u) of the federal unemployment tax act, any
instrumentality of more than one of the foregoing or any instrumentality
that is jointly owned by this state or a political subdivision thereof or
Indian tribes and one or more other states or political subdivisions of this
or other states, provided that such service is excluded from "employment"
as defined in the federal unemployment tax act by reason of section
3306(c)(7) of that act and is not excluded from "employment" under
subsection (i)(4)(A) of this section. For purposes of this section, the
exclusions from employment in subsections (i)(4)(A) and (i)(4)(L) shall

H Sub SB 229—Am. by HCW

also be applicable to services performed in the employ of an Indian tribe.
(F) Services performed by an individual in the employ of a religious,
charitable, educational or other organization that is excluded from the term
"employment" as defined in the federal unemployment tax act solely by
reason of section 3306(c)(8) of that act, and is not excluded from
employment under subsection (i)(4)(I) through (M).
(G) The term "employment" includes the services of an individual
who is a citizen of the United States, performed outside the United States
except in Canada, in the employ of an American employer, other than
service that is deemed "employment" under the provisions of subsection (i)
(2) or subsection (i)(3) or the parallel provisions of another state's law, if:
(i) The employer's principal place of business in the United States is
located in this state; or
(ii) the employer has no place of business in the United States, but:
(a) The employer is an individual who is a resident of this state;
(b) the employer is a corporation which is organized under the laws
of this state; or
(c) the employer is a partnership or a trust and the number of the
partners or trustees who are residents of this state is greater than the
number who are residents of any other state; or
(iii) none of the criteria of (i)(3)(G)(i) and (ii) are met but the
employer has elected coverage in this state or, the employer having failed
to elect coverage in any state, the individual has filed a claim for benefits,
based on such service, under the law of this state.
(H) An "American employer," for purposes of subsection (i)(3)(G),
means a person who is:
(i) An individual who is a resident of the United States;
(ii) a partnership if ⅔ or more of the partners are residents of the
United States;
(iii) a trust, if all of the trustees are residents of the United States; or
(iv) a corporation organized under the laws of the United States or of
any state.
(I) Notwithstanding subsection (i)(2), all services performed by an
officer or member of the crew of an American vessel or American aircraft
on or in connection with such vessel or aircraft, if the operating office,
from which the operations of such vessel or aircraft operating within, or
within and without, the United States are ordinarily and regularly
supervised, managed, directed and controlled is within this state.
(J) Notwithstanding any other provisions of this subsection (i),
services with respect to which a tax is required to be paid under any
federal law imposing a tax against which credit may be taken for
contributions required to be paid into a state unemployment compensation
fund or that as a condition for full tax credit against the tax imposed by the

H Sub SB 229—Am. by HCW

federal unemployment tax act is required to be covered under this act.
(K) Domestic service in a private home, local college club or local
chapter of a college fraternity or sorority performed for a person who paid
cash remuneration of $1,000 or more in any calendar quarter in the current
calendar year or the preceding calendar year to individuals employed in
such domestic service.
(4) The term "employment" does not include: (A) Services performed
in the employ of an employer specified in subsection (h)(3) if such service
is performed by an individual in the exercise of duties:
(i) As an elected official;
(ii) as a member of a legislative body, or a member of the judiciary, of
a state, political subdivision or of an Indian tribe;
(iii) as a member of the state national guard or air national guard;
(iv) as an employee serving on a temporary basis in case of fire,
storm, snow, earthquake, flood or similar emergency;
(v) in a position that, under or pursuant to the laws of this state or
tribal law, is designated as a major nontenured policymaking or advisory
position or as a policymaking or advisory position the performance of the
duties of which ordinarily does not require more than eight hours per
week;
(B) services with respect to which unemployment compensation is
payable under an unemployment compensation system established by an
act of congress;
(C) services performed by an individual in the employ of such
individual's son, daughter or spouse, and services performed by a child
under the age of 21 years in the employ of such individual's father or
mother;
(D) services performed in the employ of the United States
government or an instrumentality of the United States exempt under the
constitution of the United States from the contributions imposed by this
act, except that to the extent that the congress of the United States shall
permit states to require any instrumentality of the United States to make
payments into an unemployment fund under a state unemployment
compensation law, all of the provisions of this act shall be applicable to
such instrumentalities, and to services performed for such
instrumentalities, in the same manner, to the same extent and on the same
terms as to all other employers, employing units, individuals and services.
If this state shall not be certified for any year by the federal security
agency under section 3304(c) of the federal internal revenue code of 1986,
the payments required of such instrumentalities with respect to such year
shall be refunded by the secretary from the fund in the same manner and
within the same period as is provided in K.S.A. 44-717(h), and
amendments thereto, with respect to contributions erroneously collected;

H Sub SB 229—Am. by HCW

(E) services covered by an arrangement between the secretary and the
agency charged with the administration of any other state or federal
unemployment compensation law pursuant to which all services performed
by an individual for an employing unit during the period covered by such
employing unit's duly approved election, are deemed to be performed
entirely within the jurisdiction of such other state or federal agency;
(F) services performed by an individual under the age of 18 in the
delivery or distribution of newspapers or shopping news, not including
delivery or distribution to any point for subsequent delivery or
distribution;
(G) services performed by an individual for an employing unit as an
insurance agent or as an insurance solicitor, if all such service performed
by such individual for such employing unit is performed for remuneration
solely by way of commission;
(H) services performed in any calendar quarter in the employ of any
organization exempt from income tax under section 501(a) of the federal
internal revenue code of 1986, other than an organization described in
section 401(a) or under section 521 of such code, if the remuneration for
such service is less than $50. In construing the application of the term
"employment," if services performed during ½ or more of any pay period
by an individual for the person employing such individual constitute
employment, all the services of such individual for such period shall be
deemed to be employment; but if the services performed during more than
½ of any such pay period by an individual for the person employing such
individual do not constitute employment, then none of the services of such
individual for such period shall be deemed to be employment. As used in
this subsection (i)(4)(H) the term "pay period" means a period, of not more
than 31 consecutive days, for which a payment of remuneration is
ordinarily made to the individual by the person employing such individual.
This subsection (i)(4)(H) shall not be applicable with respect to services
with respect to which unemployment compensation is payable under an
unemployment compensation system established by an act of congress;
(I) services performed in the employ of a church or convention or
association of churches, or an organization which is operated primarily for
religious purposes and which is operated, supervised, controlled, or
principally supported by a church or convention or association of
churches;
(J) services performed by a duly ordained, commissioned, or licensed
minister of a church in the exercise of such individual's ministry or by a
member of a religious order in the exercise of duties required by such
order;
(K) services performed in a facility conducted for the purpose of
carrying out a program of:

H Sub SB 229—Am. by HCW

(i) Rehabilitation for individuals whose earning capacity is impaired
by age or physical or mental deficiency or injury; or
(ii) providing remunerative work for individuals who because of their
impaired physical or mental capacity cannot be readily absorbed in the
competitive labor market, by an individual receiving such rehabilitation or
remunerative work;
(L) services performed as part of an employment work-relief or worktraining program assisted or financed in whole or in part by any federal
agency or an agency of a state or political subdivision thereof or of an
Indian tribe, by an individual receiving such work relief or work training;
(M) services performed by an inmate of a custodial or correctional
institution;
(N) services performed, in the employ of a school, college, or
university, if such service is performed by a student who is enrolled and is
regularly attending classes at such school, college or university;
(O) services performed by an individual who is enrolled at a
nonprofit or public educational institution that normally maintains a
regular faculty and curriculum and normally has a regularly organized
body of students in attendance at the place where its educational activities
are carried on as a student in a full-time program, taken for credit at such
institution, that combines academic instruction with work experience, if
such service is an integral part of such program, and such institution has so
certified to the employer, except that this subsection (i)(4)(O) shall not
apply to service performed in a program established for or on behalf of an
employer or group of employers;
(P) services performed in the employ of a hospital licensed, certified
or approved by the secretary of health and environment, if such service is
performed by a patient of the hospital;
(Q) services performed as a qualified real estate agent. As used in this
subsection (i)(4)(Q) the term "qualified real estate agent" means any
individual who is licensed by the Kansas real estate commission as a
salesperson under the real estate brokers' and salespersons' license act and
for whom:
(i) Substantially all of the remuneration, whether or not paid in cash,
for the services performed by such individual as a real estate salesperson is
directly related to sales or other output, including the performance of
services, rather than to the number of hours worked; and
(ii) the services performed by the individual are performed pursuant
to a written contract between such individual and the person for whom the
services are performed and such contract provides that the individual will
not be treated as an employee with respect to such services for state tax
purposes;
(R) services performed for an employer by an extra in connection

H Sub SB 229—Am. by HCW

with any phase of motion picture or television production or television
commercials for less than 14 days during any calendar year. As used in this
subsection, the term "extra" means an individual who pantomimes in the
background, adds atmosphere to the set and performs such actions without
speaking and "employer" shall not include any employer that is a
governmental entity or any employer described in section 501(c)(3) of the
federal internal revenue code of 1986 that is exempt from income taxation
under section 501(a) of the code;
(S) services performed by an oil and gas contract pumper. As used in
this subsection (i)(4)(S), "oil and gas contract pumper" means a person
performing pumping and other services on one or more oil or gas leases, or
on both oil and gas leases, relating to the operation and maintenance of
such oil and gas leases, on a contractual basis for the operators of such oil
and gas leases and "services" shall not include services performed for a
governmental entity or any organization described in section 501(c)(3) of
the federal internal revenue code of 1986 that is exempt from income
taxation under section 501(a) of the code;
(T) service not in the course of the employer's trade or business
performed in any calendar quarter by an employee, unless the cash
remuneration paid for such service is $200 or more and such service is
performed by an individual who is regularly employed by such employer
to perform such service. For purposes of this paragraph, an individual shall
be deemed to be regularly employed by an employer during a calendar
quarter only if:
(i) On each of some 24 days during such quarter such individual
performs for such employer for some portion of the day service not in the
course of the employer's trade or business; or
(ii) such individual was regularly employed, as determined under
subparagraph (i), by such employer in the performance of such service
during the preceding calendar quarter.
Such excluded service shall not include any services performed for an
employer that is a governmental entity or any employer described in
section 501(c)(3) of the federal internal revenue code of 1986 that is
exempt from income taxation under section 501(a) of the code;
(U) service which is performed by any person who is a member of a
limited liability company and that is performed as a member or manager of
that limited liability company; and
(V) services performed as a qualified direct seller. The term "direct
seller" means any person if:
(i) Such person:
(a) Is engaged in the trade or business of selling or soliciting the sale
of consumer products to any buyer on a buy-sell basis or a depositcommission basis for resale, by the buyer or any other person, in the home

H Sub SB 229—Am. by HCW

or otherwise rather than in a permanent retail establishment; or
(b) is engaged in the trade or business of selling or soliciting the sale
of consumer products in the home or otherwise than in a permanent retail
establishment;
(ii) substantially all the remuneration whether or not paid in cash for
the performance of the services described in subparagraph (i) is directly
related to sales or other output including the performance of services rather
than to the number of hours worked;
(iii) the services performed by the person are performed pursuant to a
written contract between such person and the person for whom the services
are performed and such contract provides that the person will not be
treated as an employee for federal and state tax purposes;
(iv) for purposes of this act, a sale or a sale resulting exclusively from
a solicitation made by telephone, mail, or other telecommunications
method, or other nonpersonal method does not satisfy the requirements of
this subsection;
(W) services performed as an election official or election worker, if
the amount of remuneration received by the individual during the calendar
year for services as an election official or election worker is less than
$1,000;
(X) services performed by agricultural workers who are aliens
admitted to the United States to perform labor pursuant to section 1101(a)
(15)(H)(ii)(a) of the immigration and nationality act;
(Y) services performed by an owner-operator of a motor vehicle that
is leased or contracted to a licensed motor carrier with the services of a
driver and is not treated under the terms of the lease agreement or contract
with the licensed motor carrier as an employee for purposes of the federal
insurance contribution act, 26 U.S.C. § 3101 et seq., the federal social
security act, 42 U.S.C. § 301 et seq., the federal unemployment tax act, 26
U.S.C. § 3301 et seq., and the federal statutes prescribing income tax
withholding at the source, 26 U.S.C. § 3401 et seq. Employees or agents of
the owner-operator shall not be considered employees of the licensed
motor carrier for purposes of employment security taxation or
compensation. As used in this subsection (Y), the following definitions
apply: (i) "Motor vehicle" means any automobile, truck-trailer, semitrailer,
tractor, motor bus or any other self-propelled or motor-driven vehicle used
upon any of the public highways of Kansas for the purpose of transporting
persons or property; (ii) "licensed motor carrier" means any person, firm,
corporation or other business entity that holds a certificate of convenience
and necessity or a certificate of public service from the state corporation
commission or is required to register motor carrier equipment pursuant to
U.S.C. § 14504; and (iii) "owner-operator" means a person, firm,
corporation or other business entity that is the owner of a single motor

H Sub SB 229—Am. by HCW

vehicle that is driven exclusively by the owner under a lease agreement or
contract with a licensed motor carrier; and
(Z) services performed by a petroleum landman on a contractual
basis. As used in this subparagraph, "petroleum landman" means an
individual performing services on a contractual basis who is not an
individual who is an active officer of a corporation as described in
subsection (i)(1)(A) that may include:
(i) Negotiating for the acquisition or divestiture of mineral rights;
(ii) negotiating business agreements that provide exploration for or
development of minerals;
(iii) determining ownership in minerals through the research of public
and private records;
(iv) reviewing the status of title, curing title defects, providing title
due diligence and otherwise reducing title risk associated with ownership
in minerals or the acquisition and divestiture of mineral properties;
(v) managing rights or obligations derived from ownership of
interests in minerals; or
(vi) unitizing or pooling of interests in minerals. For purposes of this
subparagraph, "minerals" includes oil, natural gas or petroleum. "Services"
does not include services performed for a governmental entity or any
organization described in section 501(c)(3) of the federal internal revenue
code of 1986, or a federally recognized Indian tribe that is exempt from
income taxation under section 501(a) of the code.
(j) "Employment office" means any office operated by this state and
maintained by the secretary of labor for the purpose of assisting persons to
become employed.
(k) "Fund" means the employment security fund established by this
act, to which all contributions and reimbursement payments required and
from which all benefits provided under this act shall be paid and including
all money received from the federal government as reimbursements
pursuant to section 204 of the federal-state extended compensation act of
1970, and amendments thereto.
(l) "State" includes, in addition to the states of the United States of
America, any dependency of the United States, the Commonwealth of
Puerto Rico, the District of Columbia and the Virgin Islands.
(m) "Unemployment." An individual shall be deemed "unemployed"
with respect to any week during which such individual performs no
services and with respect to which no wages are payable to such
individual, or with respect to any week of less than full-time work if the
wages payable to such individual with respect to such week are less than
such individual's weekly benefit amount.
(n) "Employment security administration fund" means the fund
established by this act, from which administrative expenses under this act

H Sub SB 229—Am. by HCW

shall be paid.
(o) "Wages" means all compensation for services, including
commissions, bonuses, back pay and the cash value of all remuneration,
including benefits, paid in any medium other than cash. The reasonable
cash value of remuneration in any medium other than cash, shall be
estimated and determined in accordance with rules and regulations
prescribed by the secretary. Compensation payable to an individual that
has not been actually received by that individual within 21 days after the
end of the pay period in which the compensation was earned shall be
considered to have been paid on the 21st day after the end of that pay
period. Effective January 1, 1986, gratuities, including tips received from
persons other than the employing unit, shall be considered wages when
reported in writing to the employer by the employee. Employees must
furnish a written statement to the employer, reporting all tips received if
they total $20 or more for a calendar month whether the tips are received
directly from a person other than the employer or are paid over to the
employee by the employer. This includes amounts designated as tips by a
customer who uses a credit card to pay the bill. Notwithstanding the other
provisions of this subsection (o), wages paid in back pay awards or
settlements shall be allocated to the week or weeks and reported in the
manner as specified in the award or agreement, or, in the absence of such
specificity in the award or agreement, such wages shall be allocated to the
week or weeks in which such wages, in the judgment of the secretary,
would have been paid. The term "wages" shall not include:
(1) For calendar years 2016 through 2025, that part of the
remuneration that has been paid in a calendar year to an individual by an
employer or such employer's predecessor in excess of $14,000, except that
if the definition of the term "wages" as contained in the federal
unemployment tax act is amended to include remuneration paid to an
individual by an employer under the federal act in excess of $14,000 with
respect to employment during calendar years 2016 through 2025, wages
shall include remuneration paid in a calendar year to an individual by an
employer subject to this act or such employer's predecessor with respect to
employment during any calendar year up to an amount equal to the dollar
limitation specified in the federal unemployment tax act. For the purposes
of this subsection (o)(1), the term "employment" shall include service
constituting employment under any employment security law of another
state or of the federal government;
(2) (A) For the calendar year as set forth below, except as provided by
subparagraph (B), for contributing rated employers assigned rate groups 0N11, that part of the remuneration that has been paid in a calendar year to
an individual by an employer or such employer's predecessor in excess of
the specified percentage of the statewide average annual wage paid to

H Sub SB 229—Am. by HCW

employees in insured work during the previous calendar year and rounded
to the nearest multiple of $100:
(i) Calendar years 2026 through 2027, 25%;
(ii) calendar year 2028, 30%;
(iii) calendar year 2029, 35%;
(iv) calendar years 2030 through 2031, 40%; and
(v) calendar year 2032 and all ensuing calendar years thereafter:
(a) 40%, except as provided in subclause (b); and
(b) 45% if any combination of employer rate schedules G through M,
as provided in K.S.A. 44-710a(a)(4)(C), and amendments thereto, is in
effect for any five consecutive preceding calendar years occurring after
calendar year 2031. The specified percentage of 45% shall then remain in
effect for all ensuing calendar years thereafter notwithstanding any
changes to the employer rate schedules in effect during such ensuing
calendar years.
(B) If the definition of the term "wages" as contained in the federal
unemployment tax act is amended to include the remuneration paid to an
individual by an employer under the federal act in excess of the amount
calculated pursuant to subparagraph (A), then with respect to employment
during all calendar years thereafter, wages shall include the remuneration
paid in a calendar year to an individual by an employer subject to this act
or such employer's predecessor with respect to employment during any
calendar year up to an amount equal to the dollar limitation specified in the
federal unemployment tax act.
(C) For purposes of subparagraphs (A) and (B):
(i) "Employment" includes service constituting employment under
any employment security law of another state or of the federal
government; and
(ii) "statewide average annual wage" means the statewide average
annual wage as defined by subsection (jj) and computed by the secretary
on July 1 each year, as provided by K.S.A. 44-704, and amendments
thereto;
(3) the amount of any payment, including any amount paid by an
employing unit for insurance or annuities, or into a fund, to provide for
any such payment, made to, or on behalf of, an employee or any of such
employee's dependents under a plan or system established by an employer
that makes provisions for employees generally, for a class or classes of
employees or for such employees or a class or classes of employees and
their dependents, on account of:
(A) Sickness or accident disability, except in the case of any payment
made to an employee or such employee's dependents, this subparagraph
shall exclude from the term "wages" only payments that are received under
a workers compensation law. Any third party that makes a payment

H Sub SB 229—Am. by HCW

included as wages by reason of this subparagraph shall be treated as the
employer with respect to such wages;
(B) medical and hospitalization expenses in connection with sickness
or accident disability; or
(C) death;
(4) any payment on account of sickness or accident disability, or
medical or hospitalization expenses in connection with sickness or
accident disability, made by an employer to, or on behalf of, an employee
after the expiration of six calendar months following the last calendar
month in which the employee worked for such employer;
(5) any payment made to, or on behalf of, an employee or such
employee's beneficiary:
(A) From or to a trust described in section 401(a) of the federal
internal revenue code of 1986 that is exempt from tax under section 501(a)
of the federal internal revenue code of 1986 at the time of such payment
unless such payment is made to an employee of the trust as remuneration
for services rendered as such employee and not as a beneficiary of the
trust;
(B) under or to an annuity plan that, at the time of such payment, is a
plan described in section 403(a) of the federal internal revenue code of
1986;
(C) under a simplified employee pension as defined in section 408(k)
(1) of the federal internal revenue code of 1986, other than any
contribution described in section 408(k)(6) of the federal internal revenue
code of 1986;
(D) under or to an annuity contract described in section 403(b) of the
federal internal revenue code of 1986, other than a payment for the
purchase of such contract that was made by reason of a salary reduction
agreement whether evidenced by a written instrument or otherwise;
(E) under or to an exempt governmental deferred compensation plan
as defined in section 3121(v)(3) of the federal internal revenue code of
1986;
(F) to supplement pension benefits under a plan or trust described in
any of the foregoing provisions of this subparagraph to take into account
some portion or all of the increase in the cost of living, as determined by
the secretary of labor, since retirement but only if such supplemental
payments are under a plan that is treated as a welfare plan under section
3(2)(B)(ii) of the federal employee retirement income security act of 1974;
or
(G) under a cafeteria plan within the meaning of section 125 of the
federal internal revenue code of 1986;
(6) the payment by an employing unit, without deduction from the
remuneration of the employee, of the tax imposed upon an employee under

H Sub SB 229—Am. by HCW

section 3101 of the federal internal revenue code of 1986 with respect to
remuneration paid to an employee for domestic service in a private home
of the employer or for agricultural labor;
(7) remuneration paid in any medium other than cash to an employee
for service not in the course of the employer's trade or business;
(8) remuneration paid to or on behalf of an employee if and to the
extent that at the time of the payment of such remuneration it is reasonable
to believe that a corresponding deduction is allowable under section 217 of
the federal internal revenue code of 1986 relating to moving expenses;
(9) any payment or series of payments by an employer to an
employee or any of such employee's dependents that is paid:
(A) Upon or after the termination of an employee's employment
relationship because of (i) death or (ii) retirement for disability; and
(B) under a plan established by the employer that makes provisions
for employees generally, a class or classes of employees or for such
employees or a class or classes of employees and their dependents, other
than any such payment or series of payments that would have been paid if
the employee's employment relationship had not been so terminated;
(10) remuneration for agricultural labor paid in any medium other
than cash;
(11) any payment made, or benefit furnished, to or for the benefit of
an employee if at the time of such payment or such furnishing it is
reasonable to believe that the employee will be able to exclude such
payment or benefit from income under section 129 of the federal internal
revenue code of 1986 that relates to dependent care assistance programs;
(12) the value of any meals or lodging furnished by or on behalf of
the employer if at the time of such furnishing it is reasonable to believe
that the employee will be able to exclude such items from income under
section 119 of the federal internal revenue code of 1986;
(13) any payment made by an employer to a survivor or the estate of
a former employee after the calendar year in which such employee died;
(14) any benefit provided to or on behalf of an employee if at the time
such benefit is provided it is reasonable to believe that the employee will
be able to exclude such benefit from income under section 74(c), 117 or
of the federal internal revenue code of 1986;
(15) any payment made, or benefit furnished, to or for the benefit of
an employee, if at the time of such payment or such furnishing it is
reasonable to believe that the employee will be able to exclude such
payment or benefit from income under section 127 of the federal internal
revenue code of 1986 relating to educational assistance to the employee; or
(16) any payment made to or for the benefit of an employee if at the
time of such payment it is reasonable to believe that the employee will be
able to exclude such payment from income under section 106(d) of the

H Sub SB 229—Am. by HCW

federal internal revenue code of 1986 relating to health savings accounts.
Nothing in any paragraph of subsection (o), other than paragraphs (1)
and (2), shall exclude from the term "wages": (1) Any employer
contribution under a qualified cash or deferred arrangement, as defined in
section 401(k) of the federal internal revenue code of 1986, to the extent
that such contribution is not included in gross income by reason of section
402(a)(8) of the federal internal revenue code of 1986; or (2) any amount
treated as an employer contribution under section 414(h)(2) of the federal
internal revenue code of 1986.
Any amount deferred under a nonqualified deferred compensation plan
shall be taken into account for purposes of this section as of the later of
when the services are performed or when there is no substantial risk of
forfeiture of the rights to such amount. Any amount taken into account as
wages by reason of this paragraph, and the income attributable thereto,
shall not thereafter be treated as wages for purposes of this section. For
purposes of this paragraph, the term "nonqualified deferred compensation
plan" means any plan or other arrangement for deferral of compensation
other than a plan described in subsection (o)(5).
(p) "Week" means such period or periods of seven consecutive
calendar days, as the secretary may by rules and regulations prescribe.
(q) "Calendar quarter" means the period of three consecutive calendar
months ending March 31, June 30, September 30 or December 31, or the
equivalent thereof as the secretary may by rules and regulations prescribe.
(r) "Insured work" means employment for employers.
(s) "Approved training" means any vocational training course or
course in basic education skills, including a job training program
authorized under the federal workforce investment act of 1998, approved
by the secretary or a person or persons designated by the secretary.
(t) "American vessel" or "American aircraft" means any vessel or
aircraft documented or numbered or otherwise registered under the laws of
the United States; and any vessel or aircraft that is neither documented or
numbered or otherwise registered under the laws of the United States nor
documented under the laws of any foreign country, if its crew performs
service solely for one or more citizens or residents of the United States or
corporations organized under the laws of the United States or of any state.
(u) "Institution of higher education," for the purposes of this section,
means an educational institution that:
(1) Admits as regular students only individuals having a certificate of
graduation from a high school, or the recognized equivalent of such a
certificate;
(2) is legally authorized in this state to provide a program of
education beyond high school;
(3) provides an educational program for which it awards a bachelor's

H Sub SB 229—Am. by HCW

or higher degree, or provides a program that is acceptable for full credit
toward such a degree, a program of postgraduate or postdoctoral studies,
or a program of training to prepare students for gainful employment in a
recognized occupation; and
(4) is a public or other nonprofit institution.
Notwithstanding any of the foregoing provisions of this subsection (u),
all colleges and universities in this state are institutions of higher education
for purposes of this section, except that no college, university, junior
college or other postsecondary school or institution that is operated by the
federal government or any agency thereof shall be an institution of higher
education for purposes of the employment security law.
(v) "Educational institution" means any institution of higher
education, as defined in subsection (u), or any institution, except private
for profit institutions, in which participants, trainees or students are offered
an organized course of study or training designed to transfer to them
knowledge, skills, information, doctrines, attitudes or abilities from, by or
under the guidance of an instructor or teacher and that is approved,
licensed or issued a permit to operate as a school by the state department
of education or other government agency that is authorized within the state
to approve, license or issue a permit for the operation of a school or to an
Indian tribe in the operation of an educational institution. The courses of
study or training that an educational institution offers may be academic,
technical, trade or preparation for gainful employment in a recognized
occupation.
(w) (1) "Agricultural labor" means any remunerated service:
(A) On a farm, in the employ of any person, in connection with
cultivating the soil, or in connection with raising or harvesting any
agricultural or horticultural commodity, including the raising, shearing,
feeding, caring for, training, and management of livestock, bees, poultry,
and furbearing animals and wildlife.
(B) In the employ of the owner or tenant or other operator of a farm,
in connection with the operating, management, conservation,
improvement, or maintenance of such farm and its tools and equipment, or
in salvaging timber or clearing land of brush and other debris left by a
hurricane, if the major part of such service is performed on a farm.
(C) In connection with the production or harvesting of any
commodity defined as an agricultural commodity in section (15)(g) of the
agricultural marketing act, as amended, 46 Stat. 1500, sec. 3; 12 U.S.C. §
1141j, or in connection with the ginning of cotton, or in connection with
the operation or maintenance of ditches, canals, reservoirs or waterways,
not owned or operated for profit, used exclusively for supplying and
storing water for farming purposes.
(D) (i) In the employ of the operator of a farm in handling, planting,

H Sub SB 229—Am. by HCW

drying, packing, packaging, processing, freezing, grading, storing, or
delivering to storage or to market or to a carrier for transportation to
market, in its unmanufactured state, any agricultural or horticultural
commodity; but only if such operator produced more than ½ of the
commodity with respect to which such service is performed;
(ii) in the employ of a group of operators of farms, or a cooperative
organization of which such operators are members, in the performance of
services described in paragraph (i), but only if such operators produced
more than ½ of the commodity with respect to which such service is
performed;
(iii) the provisions of paragraphs (i) and (ii) shall not be deemed to be
applicable with respect to services performed in connection with
commercial canning or commercial freezing or in connection with any
agricultural or horticultural commodity after its delivery to a terminal
market for distribution for consumption.
(E) On a farm operated for profit if such service is not in the course
of the employer's trade or business.
(2) "Agricultural labor" does not include services performed prior to
January 1, 1980, by an individual who is an alien admitted to the United
States to perform service in agricultural labor pursuant to sections 214(c)
and 101(a)(15)(H) of the federal immigration and nationality act.
(3) As used in this subsection, the term "farm" includes stock, dairy,
poultry, fruit, fur-bearing animal, and truck farms, plantations, ranches,
nurseries, ranges, greenhouses, or other similar structures used primarily
for the raising of agricultural or horticultural commodities, and orchards.
(4) For the purpose of this section, if an employing unit does not
maintain sufficient records to separate agricultural labor from other
employment, all services performed during any pay period by an
individual for the person employing such individual shall be deemed to be
agricultural labor if services performed during ½ or more of such pay
period constitute agricultural labor; but if the services performed during
more than ½ of any such pay period by an individual for the person
employing such individual do not constitute agricultural labor, then none
of the services of such individual for such period shall be deemed to be
agricultural labor. As used in this subsection, the term "pay period" means
a period of not more than 31 consecutive days for which a payment of
remuneration is ordinarily made to the individual by the person employing
such individual.
(x) "Reimbursing employer" means any employer who makes
payments in lieu of contributions to the employment security fund as
provided in K.S.A. 44-710(e), and amendments thereto.
(y) "Contributing employer" means any employer other than a
reimbursing employer or rated governmental employer.

H Sub SB 229—Am. by HCW

(z) "Wage combining plan" means a uniform national arrangement
approved by the United States secretary of labor in consultation with the
state unemployment compensation agencies and in which this state shall
participate, whereby wages earned in one or more states are transferred to
another state, called the "paying state," and combined with wages in the
paying state, if any, for the payment of benefits under the laws of the
paying state and as provided by an arrangement so approved by the United
States secretary of labor.
(aa) "Domestic service" means any services for a person in the
operation and maintenance of a private household, local college club or
local chapter of a college fraternity or sorority, as distinguished from
service as an employee in the pursuit of an employer's trade, occupation,
profession, enterprise or vocation.
(bb) "Rated governmental employer" means any governmental entity
that elects to make payments as provided by K.S.A. 44-710d, and
amendments thereto.
(cc) "Benefit cost payments" means payments made to the
employment security fund by a governmental entity electing to become a
rated governmental employer.
(dd) "Successor employer" means any employer, as described in
subsection (h), that acquires or in any manner succeeds to: (1)
Substantially all of the employing enterprises, organization, trade or
business of another employer; or (2) substantially all the assets of another
employer.
(ee) "Predecessor employer" means an employer, as described in
subsection (h), who has previously operated a business or portion of a
business with employment to which another employer has succeeded.
(ff) "Lessor employing unit" means any independently established
business entity that engages in the business of providing leased employees
to a client lessee.
(gg) "Client lessee" means any individual, organization, partnership,
corporation or other legal entity leasing employees from a lessor
employing unit.
(hh) "Qualifying injury" means a personal injury by accident arising
out of and in the course of employment within the coverage of the Kansas
workers compensation act, K.S.A. 44-501 et seq., and amendments*.
(ii) "Temporary unemployment," "temporarily unemployed" or
"temporary layoff" means that the individual has been laid off due to lack
of work by an employing unit for which the individual has most recently
worked full time and for which the individual reasonably expects to
resume full-time work at a future date within eight weeks, and that the
individual's employment with the employing unit, although temporarily
suspended, has not been terminated. Except as otherwise provided by

H Sub SB 229—Am. by HCW

K.S.A. 44-775(a)(3), and amendments thereto, "temporary unemployment"
shall not exceed eight consecutive weeks. An extension of additional
weeks of temporary unemployment at the request of an employer for an
individual may be granted by the secretary as provided by K.S.A. 44775(a)(3), and amendments thereto. The maximum amount of temporary
unemployment for an individual in a benefit year, including any extension
granted by the secretary, shall be as provided by K.S.A. 44-775(a)(3), and
amendments thereto.
(jj) "Statewide average annual wage" or "SAAW" means the quotient,
obtained by dividing gross wages by average monthly covered
employment for the same determination period, rounded to the nearest
cent.
(kk) "Statewide average weekly wage" or "SAWW" means the
quotient, obtained by dividing the statewide average annual wage by 52,
rounded to the nearest cent.
(a) "Agricultural labor" means any remunerated service as defined
below:
(1) Services performed:
(A) On a farm, in the employ of any person and in connection with:
(i) Cultivating the soil; or
(ii) raising or harvesting any agricultural or horticultural
commodity, including the raising, shearing, feeding, caring for, training
and management of livestock, bees, poultry, furbearing animals and
wildlife;
(B) in the employ of the owner, tenant or other operator of a farm, in
connection with:
(i) The operation, management, conservation, improvement or
maintenance of such farm and such farm's tools and equipment; or
(ii) salvaging timber or clearing land of brush and debris left by a
hurricane, if the major part of such service is performed on a farm;
(C) in connection with:
(i) The production or harvesting of any agricultural commodity as
defined in 12 U.S.C. § 1141j, as in effect on July 1, 2026;
(ii) the ginning of cotton; or
(iii) the operation or maintenance of ditches, canals, reservoirs or
waterways not owned or operated for profit, if used exclusively for
supplying and storing water for farming purposes;
(D) (i) in the employ of the operator of a farm, in handling, planting,
drying, packing, packaging, processing, freezing, grading, storing or
delivering to storage, market or a carrier for transportation to market any
agricultural or horticultural commodity in such commodity's
unmanufactured state, if such operator produced more than 50% of such
commodity for which the service is performed;

H Sub SB 229—Am. by HCW

(ii) in the employ of a group of farm operators or a cooperative
organization of which such operators are members, in performing the
services described in paragraph (i), provided that the operators
collectively produced more than 50% of the commodity for which the
service is performed; or
(iii) services under (i) and (ii) shall not include services performed in
connection with commercial canning or freezing or any agricultural or
horticultural commodity after its delivery to a terminal market for
distribution or consumption; or
(E) on a farm operated for profit, where the service is not performed
in the course of the employer's trade or business.
(2) For the purposes of this subsection, "farm" includes stock, dairy,
poultry, fruit, fur-bearing animal and truck farms, plantations, ranches,
nurseries, ranges, greenhouses or similar structures primarily used for the
raising of agricultural or horticultural commodities and orchards.
(3) For determining coverage under this act, if an employing unit
does not maintain sufficient records to distinguish agricultural labor from
other employment:
(A) All services performed during a pay period shall be deemed
agricultural labor if 50% or more of the individual's services during such
period constitute agricultural labor; or
(B) no services shall be deemed agricultural labor if less than 50% of
such services constitute agricultural labor.
(b) "American vessel" or "American aircraft" means a vessel or
aircraft registered or documented under the laws of the United States or
operated by companies or citizens that are based in the United States.
(c) (1) "Annual payroll" means the total wages paid or payable by an
employer during the calendar year.
(2) "Average annual payroll" means the average of the annual
payrolls of an employer for the last three calendar years immediately
preceding the computation date, provided the employer has been
continuously subject to contributions and has paid wages during each of
those years. If an employer has only been subject to contributions for the
two most recent calendar years preceding the computation date, the
"average annual payroll" shall be the average for those two years.
(3) "Total wages" means the total amount of wages paid or payable
by an employer during the calendar year, including amounts exceeding the
taxable wage base.
(d) "Approved training" means any training or education program
approved by the secretary or the secretary's designee, including those
authorized under federal workforce programs.
(e) "Average high cost multiple" means the measure of trust fund
solvency calculated by dividing the trust fund balance by the average of

H Sub SB 229—Am. by HCW

the three highest calendar year benefit cost rates in the previous 20 years.
An average high cost multiple of 1.0 indicates sufficient reserves to pay
one year of high-cost benefits without additional revenue, as
recommended by the United States department of labor.
(f) "Base period" means the first four of the last five completed
calendar quarters immediately preceding the start of an individual's
benefit year, except for combined wage claims, in which the base period is
defined by the paying state.
(1) If an individual does not have sufficient wages in the standard
base period to establish a claim and meets the requirements of K.S.A. 44705(e), and amendments thereto, an "alternative base period" may be
used, defined as the last four completed quarters immediately before the
date of a qualifying injury. Wages previously used for another claim shall
be excluded.
(2) For the purposes of this act, the term "base period" includes both
the standard and alternative base periods.
(g) "Benefit account" means the account established within the
employment security fund for the disbursement of unemployment
insurance benefits, consisting of moneys requisitioned from this state's
account in the federal unemployment trust fund.
(h) "Benefit cost payments" means amounts paid by rated
governmental employers to fund unemployment benefits.
(i) "Benefit cost rate" means the total benefits paid during a fiscal
year divided by total covered payrolls.
(j) "Benefit liability" means the amount of unemployment insurance
benefits attributed to an employer's account or obligation, either through
experience rating, reimbursement or benefit charging, including amounts
subject to offset or relief as provided under this act.
(k) "Benefit year" means the 52-week period beginning on the Sunday
of the week in which an individual files a valid claim for benefits. A
subsequent benefit year may begin only after the preceding benefit year
ends. In combined wage claims, the benefit year is determined by the
paying state.
(l) (1) "Benefits" means money payments payable to an individual
with respect to unemployment, as provided under this act.
(2) "Regular benefits" means benefits payable under this act or under
any other state law, including federal benefits to civilian employees or exservice members under 5 U.S.C. Ch. 85, excluding extended benefits.
(m) "Calendar quarter" means a three-month period ending on
March 31, June 30, September 30 or December 31.
(n) "Clearing account" means the account within the employment
security fund used to temporarily hold contributions and remittances prior
to their deposit into the federal unemployment trust fund or other

H Sub SB 229—Am. by HCW

authorized accounts.
(o) "Client lessee" means any individual, organization, partnership,
corporation or other legal entity that obtains the services of workers by
leasing such workers from a lessor employing unit under a contractual
arrangement.
(p) (1) "Computation date" means June 30 of the calendar year
preceding the applicable rate year, or such other date as may be
designated by rules and regulations adopted by the secretary, used for
calculating employer experience ratings and contribution rates applicable
to the following calendar year beginning on January 1.
(2) For the purpose of calculating experience ratings and
contribution rates, contributions paid on or before July 31 following the
computation date shall be considered, provided they relate to employment
occurring on or before the computation date.
(3) The experience ratings and contribution rates shall apply to any
contributing employer that has been subject to this act for a sufficient
period to have a rate computed pursuant to K.S.A. 44-710a(a)(2), and
amendments thereto.
(q) "Contributing employer" means any employer required to pay
regular unemployment insurance contributions, excluding reimbursing or
rated governmental employers.
(r) "Contribution receipts" means all amounts collected from subject
employers under the employment security law, including contributions,
penalties and interest, unless otherwise excluded by statute or regulation.
(s) (1) "Contributions" means required payments by employers to the
state employment security fund pursuant to K.S.A. 44-710, and
amendments thereto, including voluntary payments.
(2) "Payments in lieu of contributions" means payments made by
reimbursing employers instead of contributions pursuant to K.S.A. 44710(e), and amendments thereto.
(t) "Domestic service" means services performed for a person in the
operation and maintenance of a private household, local college club or
local chapter of a college fraternity or sorority. This term is distinct from
employment performed in the course of an employer's trade, occupation,
profession, enterprise or vocation.
(u) "Educational institution" means any accredited institution, except
private for-profit entities, that offers organized courses of study approved
by a relevant government authority or tribal authority.
(v) "Employer" means:
(1) (A) Any employing unit for which agricultural labor as defined in
this section is performed and, during any calendar quarter in either the
current or preceding calendar year, paid remuneration in cash in an
amount of $20,000 or more to individuals employed in agricultural labor

H Sub SB 229—Am. by HCW

or for some portion of a day in each of 20 calendar weeks, whether or not
such weeks were consecutive, in either the current or the preceding
calendar year, or employed 10 or more individuals in agricultural labor,
regardless of whether they were employed at the same time.
(B) For the purposes of this subsection, any individual who is a
member of a crew furnished by a crew leader to perform services in
agricultural labor for any other person shall be considered an employee of
such crew leader if:
(i) Such crew leader holds a valid certificate of registration under the
federal migrant and seasonal agricultural workers protection act or
substantially all the members of such crew operate or maintain tractors,
mechanized harvesting or cropdusting equipment or any other mechanized
equipment that is provided by such crew leader; and
(ii) such individual is not in the employment of such other person as
defined in this section.
(C) For the purposes of this subsection, in the case of any individual
who is furnished by a crew leader to perform services in agricultural
labor for any other person and is not an employee of such crew leader:
(i) Such other person shall be considered the employer of such
individual; and
(ii) such other person shall be deemed to have paid cash
remuneration to such individual in an amount equal to the amount of cash
remuneration paid to such individual by the crew leader, either on the
crew leader's own behalf or on behalf of such other person, for the
services in agricultural labor performed for such other person.
(D) For the purposes of this subsection, "crew leader" means an
individual who:
(i) Furnishes individuals to perform services in agricultural labor for
any other person;
(ii) pays, either on such crew leader's own behalf or on behalf of such
other person, the individuals so furnished by such crew leader for the
services in agricultural labor performed by such individuals; and
(iii) has not entered into a written agreement with such other person
under which such individual is designated as an employee of such other
person.
(2) (A) Any employing unit that:
(i) Paid wages of $1,500 or more in any calendar quarter during the
current or preceding calendar year;
(ii) employed at least one individual for some portion of a day in
each of 20 weeks during the current or preceding calendar year; or
(iii) elected to establish an unemployment tax account pursuant to
K.S.A. 44-711(c), and amendments thereto.
(B) Wages and employment related to domestic service or

H Sub SB 229—Am. by HCW

agricultural labor shall be excluded when determining employer status
under this paragraph.
(3) Any employing unit for which service is deemed employment
under subsection (x)(3)(E);
(4) (A) any employing unit that acquires or succeeds to:
(i) Substantially all of the business, trade, organization or
operations; or
(ii) substantially all of the assets of an employer subject to this act.
(B) Any employing unit controlled substantially, directly or indirectly,
by the same interest or interests that acquires less than 100% of another
employer's payroll and intends to operate such acquired portion of payroll
as a continuing business;
(5) any employing unit that paid $1,000 or more in cash wages in any
calendar quarter in the current or preceding calendar year for domestic
service;
(6) any employing unit that, having become subject to this act as an
employer, has not ceased to be an employer pursuant to K.S.A. 44-711(b),
and amendments thereto;
(7) any employing unit that elects full coverage under this act and
pursuant to K.S.A. 44-711(c), and amendments thereto;
(8) any employing unit not otherwise defined as an employer under
this subsection that is subject to federal unemployment tax requirements or
must be defined as an employer for Kansas to maintain conformity with
federal law; or
(9) any organization that is tax exempt under 26 U.S.C. § 501(c)(3)
that employed four or more individuals for some portion of a day in each
of 20 weeks during the current or preceding calendar year, regardless of
whether the employees worked simultaneously.
(w) (1) "Employing unit" means any individual or legal entity,
including, but not limited to, a partnership, corporation, limited liability
company, trust, estate, association, government agency or nonprofit
organization that has employed one or more individuals in this state.
(2) All individuals working at multiple locations operated by the
same entity shall be considered employed by one employing unit for the
purposes of this act.
(3) Any individual who performs work under the direction of another
individual employed by the unit, whether hired directly or indirectly, shall
be considered employed by the employing unit if the unit had actual or
constructive knowledge of such work.
(x) "Employment" means:
(1) (A) Subject to the provisions of this subsection, service, including
service in interstate commerce, performed by:
(i) Any active officer of a corporation;

H Sub SB 229—Am. by HCW

(ii) any individual who is determined to be an employee under the
common law test for employer-employee status, subject to paragraph (3)
(D); or
(iii) any individual who is not included under clauses (i) or (ii) but
performs services for remuneration under occupational classifications
such as:
(a) An agent-driver or commission-driver engaged in distributing
meat, vegetable, fruit and bakery products, beverages other than milk or
laundry or dry-cleaning services for such individual's principal; or
(b) a traveling or city salesman, other than as an agent-driver or
commission-driver, engaged on a full-time basis in the solicitation on
behalf of and the transmission to a principal, except for side-line sales
activities on behalf of some other person, of orders from wholesalers,
retailers, contractors or operators of hotels, restaurants or other similar
establishments for merchandise resale or supplies for use in their business
operations.
(B) For the purposes of paragraph (1)(A)(iii), "employment" includes
services such as described in subclauses (1)(A)(iii)(a) and (b) above only
if:
(i) The contract of service contemplates that substantially all of the
services are to be performed personally by such individual;
(ii) the individual does not have a substantial investment in facilities
used in connection with the performance of the services other than in
facilities for transportation; and
(iii) the services are not in the nature of a single transaction that is
not part of a continuing relationship with the person for whom the services
are performed.
(2) "Employment" includes all services performed entirely outside of
Kansas if:
(A) The work is not localized in any one state;
(B) the individual is part of a class of traveling employees; and
(C) the base of operations or supervisory control is located in
Kansas.
(3) "Employment" also includes:
(A) Services performed in Kansas but not covered under paragraphs
(1) or (2), if no other state or federal unemployment tax applies;
(B) services performed entirely outside of Kansas by a resident in
which the employer elects to cover the service under Kansas law and no
other state has jurisdiction;
(C) services subject to an interstate reciprocal arrangement pursuant
to K.S.A. 44-714(h), and amendments thereto, in which all services are
deemed to occur in Kansas and the secretary approves the election;
(D) services for remuneration under a contract of hire in which the

H Sub SB 229—Am. by HCW

employer retains control over both the result and manner of performance;
(E) services for state, local or tribal governments and political
subdivisions, as well as joint instrumentalities with Indian tribes, to the
extent permitted under federal law and not excluded in paragraph (4)(A);
(F) services for religious, charitable or educational organizations
excluded from coverage under the federal unemployment tax act solely by
U.S.C. 3306(c)(8) but not otherwise excluded under paragraph (4)(I)–
(M);
(G) (i) out-of-country services by citizens of the United States. For
the purposes of the employment security law, "employment" includes
services performed outside of the United States, except in Canada, by an
individual who is a citizen of the United States and employed by an
American employer, as such term is defined in subclause (ii), provided
such service is not already deemed "employment" under paragraphs (2) or
(3) or the corresponding provisions of another state's law, and one of the
following conditions applies:
(a) The employer's principal place of business within the United
States is located in Kansas; or
(b) the employer has no place of business in the United States, but:
(1) If the employer is an individual, such individual is a resident of
Kansas;
(2) if the employer is a corporation, such corporation is organized
under the laws of Kansas; or
(3) if the employer is a partnership or a trust, the number of partners
or trustees who are Kansas residents exceeds the number residing in any
other state; or
(c) if none of the above criteria are met, the employer has elected to
cover such services under the employment security law, or, in the absence
of such an election in any state, the individual has filed a claim for
benefits under the employment security law.
(ii) For the purposes of paragraph (3)(G)(i), an "American
employer" means any of the following entities:
(a) An individual who is a resident of the United States;
(b) a partnership in which two-thirds or more of the partners are
residents of the United States;
(c) a trust in which all trustees are residents of the United States; or
(d) a corporation organized under the laws of the United States or
any of its states;
(H) services performed on American vessels and aircraft.
Notwithstanding paragraph (2), services performed by an officer or crew
member aboard an American vessel or American aircraft, whether
operating solely within the United States or both within and outside of the
United States, shall be deemed employment under the employment security

H Sub SB 229—Am. by HCW

law if the operating office from which the vessel's or aircraft's operations
are ordinarily and regularly supervised, managed, directed and controlled
is located within the state of Kansas;
(I) services required to be compliant under the federal unemployment
tax act. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this subsection,
"employment" includes any services for which a federal tax is required to
be paid under a law that permits a credit for contributions made to a state
unemployment compensation fund, or for which coverage is required
under the employment security law as a condition of receiving the full tax
credit allowed under the federal unemployment tax act; and
(J) domestic service performed in a private home, local college club
or local chapter of a college fraternity or sorority for any person who paid
cash wages totaling $1,000 or more in any calendar quarter during the
current or preceding calendar year to one or more individuals employed
in such domestic service.
(4) The term "employment" does not include the following services:
(A) Services performed for an employer described in paragraph (3)
(E), if the individual performs duties:
(i) As an elected official;
(ii) as a member of a legislative body or the judiciary of a state,
political subdivision or Indian tribe;
(iii) as a member of the Kansas army or air national guard;
(iv) on a temporary basis in response to emergencies, such as fire,
storm, snow, earthquake, flood or similar events; or
(v) in a position designated under state or tribal law as a major
nontenured policymaking or advisory role, or one that ordinarily requires
less than eight hours of service per week;
(B) services for which unemployment compensation is payable under
a federal unemployment compensation system established by an act of
congress;
(C) services performed by an individual in the employ of such
individual's spouse, son, or daughter or by a child under the age of 21 in
the employ of the child's parent;
(D) services for the United States government or the United State's
instrumentalities that are exempt from state contributions under the
constitution of the United States. However, if federal law permits such
instrumentalities to make payments into a state unemployment fund, all
provisions of this act apply. If Kansas fails to be certified for a year under
U.S.C. 3304(c), payments made by such instrumentalities shall be
refunded in accordance with K.S.A. 44-717(h), and amendments thereto;
(E) reciprocal coverage agreements. "Employment" does not include
services performed by an individual for an employing unit when all such
services during a specified period are covered under a reciprocal

H Sub SB 229—Am. by HCW

arrangement approved pursuant to K.S.A. 44-714(h), and amendments
thereto, pursuant to which the secretary and the agency administering
another state or federal unemployment compensation law have agreed that
such services are deemed to be performed entirely within the jurisdiction
of that other state or federal agency for purposes of unemployment
insurance coverage;
(F) exempt newspaper delivery by minors. Services performed by an
individual under the age of 18 in the delivery or distribution of
newspapers or shopping news shall not be deemed employment, provided
such services do not include delivery or distribution to any location for
subsequent delivery or distribution;
(G) insurance agents and solicitors. Services performed by an
individual for an employing unit as an insurance agent or solicitor shall
be excluded from employment if all such services are performed for
remuneration solely by way of commission;
(H) low-paid work for certain tax-exempt organizations. Services
performed in any calendar quarter for an organization exempt from
income tax under 26 U.S.C. § 501(a), excluding organizations described
in 26 U.S.C. §§ 401(a) or 521, shall be excluded from employment if total
remuneration is less than $50 for such quarter. For the purposes of this
subsection:
(i) If services performed during 1/2 or more of any pay period
constitute employment, then all services performed by such individual
during such pay period shall be deemed employment;
(ii) if services performed during more than 1/2 of any pay period do
not constitute employment, then none of the services during that period
shall be deemed employment; and
(iii) this exclusion shall not apply where unemployment
compensation is payable under a federal unemployment compensation
system;
(I) religious employment, including services performed in the employ
of a church, convention or association of churches or by an organization
operated primarily for religious purposes and under the supervision,
control or support of such church entities;
(J) ministers and religious order members, including services
performed by a duly ordained, commissioned or licensed minister of a
church in the exercise of their ministry or a member of a religious order in
the exercise of required duties;
(K) rehabilitation and sheltered work services, including services
performed in a facility operated to conduct a program of:
(i) Rehabilitation for individuals whose earning capacity is impaired
by age, physical or mental deficiency or injury; or
(ii) remunerative work for individuals who, due to such impairments,

H Sub SB 229—Am. by HCW

cannot readily be absorbed into the competitive labor market;
(L) work-relief or work-training programs, including services
performed under an employment work-relief or work-training program
financed in whole or in part by any federal agency or agency of a state,
political subdivision or Indian tribe, by individuals receiving such work
relief or training;
(M) services performed by an inmate of a custodial or correctional
institution;
(N) student employees of educational institutions. Services performed
in the employ of a school, college or university by a student who is
enrolled and regularly attending classes at such institution shall be
excluded from employment;
(O) work-study programs. Services performed as part of a full-time,
for-credit work-study program at a nonprofit or public educational
institution shall be excluded from employment, provided the institution
certifies that:
(i) The service is an integral part of the student's academic program;
and
(ii) the position was not established primarily for or by the employer;
(P) services performed in the employ of a hospital licensed, certified
or approved by the secretary of health and environment, if such services
are performed by a patient of the hospital;
(Q) services performed as a qualified real estate agent. A "qualified
real estate agent" means any individual who:
(i) Is licensed by the Kansas real estate commission as a salesperson
under the real estate brokers' and salespersons' license act;
(ii) receives substantially all remuneration, whether or not paid in
cash, for services as a real estate salesperson based directly on sales or
other output rather than hours worked; and
(iii) performs such services pursuant to a written contract with the
person for whom the services are performed, and such contract specifies
that the individual will not be considered an employee for state tax
purposes;
(R) services performed by an extra for an employer in connection
with any phase of motion picture, television production or television
commercials for fewer than 14 days in any calendar year. "Extra" means
an individual who pantomimes in the background, adds atmosphere to the
set and performs such actions without speaking. This exclusion does not
apply to services performed for a governmental entity or an organization
described in 26 U.S.C. § 501(c)(3) that is exempt under 26 U.S.C. §
501(a).
(S) services performed by an oil and gas contract pumper. "Oil and
gas contract pumper" means a person performing pumping and related

H Sub SB 229—Am. by HCW

services on one or more oil or gas leases on a contractual basis for the
lease operators concerning the operation and maintenance of such leases.
This exclusion does not apply to services performed for a governmental
entity or an organization described in 26 U.S.C. § 501(c)(3) that is exempt
under 26 U.S.C. § 501(a);
(T) (i) casual services not in the course of the employer's trade or
business performed in any calendar quarter, unless:
(a) Cash remuneration paid for such service is $200 or more; and
(b) the individual is regularly employed by the employer to perform
such service;
(ii) for the purposes of this subparagraph, an individual is "regularly
employed" during a calendar quarter if:
(a) On 24 or more days in such quarter, the individual performs some
portion of such casual services; or
(b) the individual met the standard in subparagraph (a) in the
preceding calendar quarter; and
(iii) this exclusion shall not apply to services performed for a
governmental entity or an organization described in 26 U.S.C. § 501(c)(3)
that is exempt under 26 U.S.C. § 501(a);
(U) services performed by a member or manager of a limited liability
company in their capacity as a member or manager of such limited
liability company;
(V) services performed as a qualified direct seller. A "qualified direct
seller" means a person who:
(i) Is engaged in selling or soliciting the sale of consumer products
without a permanent retail establishment, including through buy-sell,
deposit-commission or similar arrangements;
(ii) receives substantially all remuneration directly related to sales or
output rather than hours worked;
(iii) performs services pursuant to a written contract stating that the
individual will not be considered an employee for federal and state tax
purposes; and
(iv) does not rely exclusively on nonpersonal solicitation methods
such as telephone, mail or other telecommunication means to make sales;
(W) services performed as an election official or election worker, if
the total remuneration received in a calendar year is less than $1,000;
(X) services performed by agricultural workers admitted to the
United States under H-2A visas in accordance with 8 U.S.C. § 1101(a)(15)
(H)(ii)(a);
(Y) services performed by an owner-operator of a motor vehicle that
is leased or contracted to a licensed motor carrier with the services of a
driver and is considered an employee under the terms of the lease
agreement or contract with the licensed motor carrier for the purposes of

H Sub SB 229—Am. by HCW

the federal insurance contribution act, 26 U.S.C. § 3101 et seq., the
federal social security act, 42 U.S.C. § 301 et seq., the federal
unemployment tax act, 26 U.S.C. § 3301 et seq., and the federal statutes
prescribing income tax withholding at the source, 26 U.S.C. § 3401 et seq.
Employees or agents of the owner-operator shall not be considered
employees of the licensed motor carrier for purposes of employment
security taxation or compensation. As used in this subparagraph, the
following definitions apply:
(i) "Motor vehicle" means any automobile, truck-trailer, semitrailer,
tractor, motor bus or any other self-propelled or motor-driven vehicle used
upon any of the public highways of Kansas for the purpose of transporting
persons or property;
(ii) "licensed motor carrier" means any person, firm, corporation or
other business entity that holds a certificate of convenience and necessity
or a certificate of public service from the state corporation commission or
is required to register motor carrier equipment pursuant to 49 U.S.C. §
14504; and
(iii) "owner-operator" means a person, firm, corporation or other
business entity that is the owner of a single motor vehicle that is driven
exclusively by the owner under a lease agreement or contract with a
licensed motor carrier; and
(Z) (i) services performed by a petroleum landman under a
contractual arrangement, provided such individual is not acting as a
corporate officer. "Petroleum landman" includes a person performing one
or more of the following services:
(a) Negotiating acquisition or divestiture of mineral rights;
(b) negotiating agreements for mineral exploration or development;
(c) researching public or private records to determine mineral
ownership;
(d) reviewing and curing title defects or providing due diligence;
(e) managing mineral rights or obligations derived from such rights;
or
(f) coordinating unitization or pooling of mineral interests;
(ii) This exclusion does not apply to services performed for a
governmental entity, a federally recognized Indian tribe or an
organization described in 26 U.S.C. § 501(c)(3) that is exempt under 26
U.S.C. § 501(a).
(y) "Employment office" means any office operated or authorized by
the department of labor or the department of commerce, as applicable, for
the purpose of connecting individuals with employment opportunities and
workforce services.
(z) "Employment security administration fund" means the fund from
which all administrative expenses for the Kansas unemployment insurance

H Sub SB 229—Am. by HCW

program are paid.
(aa) "Experience rating factors" means the components used to
calculate an employer's contribution rate, including the employer's
cumulative benefit charges, contributions paid and annual taxable payroll
over the relevant experience period as defined in K.S.A. 44-710a, and
amendments thereto.
(bb) "Federal unemployment trust fund" means the fund established
under 42 U.S.C. § 1104 that is held by the secretary of the treasury of the
United States and where each state maintains a separate account for the
deposit and requisition of unemployment insurance contributions and
benefit payments.
(cc) "Fraud" means knowingly making a false statement or
representation or knowingly failing to disclose a material fact in order to
obtain or increase unemployment benefits in violation of this act or any
other unemployment compensation law administered by the secretary.
(dd) "Improper payment" means any unemployment benefit paid to a
claimant who was not eligible for such benefits or who failed to comply
with applicable eligibility conditions, including payments issued as a
result of administrative error, claimant error or fraud.
(ee) "Institution of higher education" means an accredited, nonprofit
or public educational institution authorized to offer programs beyond high
school and award degrees or training for gainful employment.
(ff) "Insured work" means employment for a covered employer under
the employment security law.
(gg) "Lessor employing unit" means any individual, organization,
partnership, corporation or other legal entity that provides its employees
to one or more client lessees through a contractual arrangement and that
retains the right to hire, assign, reassign and discharge those employees.
(hh) (1) "Meritorious service award" means a non-monetary form of
recognition authorized by the secretary to honor eligible employees for
continuous or cumulative satisfactory service in the administration of the
employment security law, provided that a majority of such employee's
compensation is paid from the employment security administration fund.
(2) Such awards may include, but are not limited to, service pins,
certificates, framed commendations, engraved plaques or other modest
commemorative items.
(3) The total cost of each award, including materials and
presentation, shall not exceed $100 per employee, unless a higher amount
is explicitly authorized in the agency's annual administrative budget and
approved in accordance with federal grant requirements.
(4) All meritorious service award expenses shall be paid from the
employment security administration fund and shall comply with applicable
federal cost principles, including 2 C.F.R. Part 200, and relevant United

H Sub SB 229—Am. by HCW

States department of labor conformity requirements or guidance,
including ETA Handbook 401.
(ii) "Negative account balance" means the condition in which the
total benefit charges to an employer's account exceed the total
contributions paid and any other credits assigned to such account as of
the applicable computation date.
(jj) "Negative account balance employer" means any eligible
employer whose cumulative unemployment insurance benefit charges
exceed the total contributions that the employer has paid into the system
over all applicable years.
(kk) "Pay period" means a period of not more than 31 consecutive
days for which remuneration is ordinarily paid.
(ll) (1) "Performance of official duties" means the administration or
enforcement of federal, state or local law, including, but not limited to, the
collection of debts owed to courts and the enforcement of child support
obligations.
(2) "Performance of official duties" includes conducting research
directly related to the administration of such laws.
(3) "Performance of official duties" does not include solicitation of
contributions or expenditures to or on behalf of any candidate for public
office, political party or political action committee.
(mm) "Pooled money investment board" means the board established
pursuant to K.S.A. 75-4221a, and amendments thereto, responsible for
investing idle funds of the state and authorizing loans to the employment
security fund pursuant to K.S.A. 75-4209(d), and amendments thereto.
(nn) "Predecessor employer" means an employer who has previously
operated a business or portion of a business involving employment to
which another employer has succeeded, whether by acquisition, merger,
consolidation or any other form of legal succession.
(oo) "Qualifying injury" means a work-related injury covered under
the Kansas workers compensation act, K.S.A. 44-501, and amendments
thereto.
(pp) "Rate group" means the classification assigned to an employer
based on the employer's reserve ratio under standard rate schedule G.
(qq) "Rate year" means the calendar year beginning on January 1
and ending on December 31 during which an employer's assigned
unemployment insurance contribution rate is in effect.
(rr) "Rated governmental employer" means any governmental entity
that elects to finance unemployment compensation benefits by making
contributions as provided pursuant to K.S.A. 44-710d, and amendments
thereto, through periodic payments determined by experience rating
rather than on a reimbursement basis.
(ss) (1) "Reasonable commute" means the geographic distance,

H Sub SB 229—Am. by HCW

travel time and available transportation options that are customarily
accepted by workers in the individual's customary occupation and labor
market area.
(2) A commute is presumed reasonable if it does not exceed the
distance or time the individual traveled for prior employment, unless
substantially equivalent work is available closer to the individual's
residence.
(3) Reasonableness shall take into account the claimant's physical
capabilities, transportation limitations and labor market conditions.
(tt) "Reemployment services" means:
(1) Services provided to unemployment insurance claimants to assist
with rapid return to work, including, but not limited to, job search
assistance, job placement services, skills assessments, resume writing
assistance, labor market information, career counseling and referrals to
training or support services.
(2) Reemployment services may be provided by the department of
labor, KansasWorks or other entities authorized under federal or state
workforce programs.
(3) Failure to participate in reemployment services without good
cause may result in ineligibility pursuant to K.S.A. 44-705, and
amendment thereto.
(uu) "Reimbursing employer" means an employer who elects to make
payments in lieu of contributions as allowed by law.
(vv) "Requisition" means the process by which the secretary formally
requests the transfer of funds from this state's account in the federal
unemployment trust fund to the benefit account for the purpose of paying
unemployment insurance benefits.
(ww) "Reserve fund ratio" means the ratio of total trust fund assets,
excluding federal funds not withdrawn and uncollected contributions, to
total contributing employer payrolls for the preceding fiscal year ending
on June 30.
(xx) "Secretary" means the secretary of labor of the state of Kansas.
(yy) "Section 903 funds" means moneys credited to the state's
account in the federal unemployment trust fund under 42 U.S.C. § 1103
and may include funds made available for administration of the
unemployment insurance program or public employment offices, subject to
federal and state conditions.
(zz) "Solvency certification" means the annual report prepared by the
secretary pursuant to K.S.A. 44-712(g), and amendments thereto,
evaluating the status of the unemployment insurance trust fund and its
ability to meet benefit obligations under varying economic scenarios.
(aaa) "Standard rate schedule" means the base contribution rate
schedule adopted by the secretary and published annually pursuant to

H Sub SB 229—Am. by HCW

K.S.A. 44-710a, and amendments thereto, without application of solvency
or credit adjustments.
(bbb) "State" includes the states of the United States, the District of
Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands and any dependency of the
United States.
(ccc) "Statewide average annual wage" means the total annual
covered wages divided by the average number of employees, rounded to
the nearest cent.
(ddd) "Statewide average weekly wage" means the statewide average
annual wage divided by 52, rounded to the nearest cent.
(eee) "Successor employer" means any employer who acquires
substantially all of the operations or assets of another employer.
(fff) "Supplemental unemployment benefit plan" means a private,
employer-sponsored plan that provides additional income to an eligible
individual who is unemployed due to a temporary layoff, designed to
supplement state unemployment compensation without disqualifying the
recipient from benefits, consistent with federal guidance under IRS
revenue rulings 56-249 and 90-72 and 26 U.S.C. § 501(c)(17).
Supplemental unemployment benefit plans shall comply with the
requirements set forth in section 2, and amendments thereto.
(ggg) (1) "Temporary unemployment" means a period during which
an individual is completely separated from employment due to a shortterm, bona fide interruption of work with a reasonable expectation of
recall to the same employer, under conditions that:
(A) Are attributable to temporary economic conditions, seasonal
operations, equipment maintenance, inventory adjustments, weatherrelated interruptions or other similar short-term business circumstances;
(B) are designated in writing by the employer at the time of
separation, including an estimated duration of the temporary
unemployment;
(C) are not intended to be permanent, indefinite or open-ended; and
(D) except as otherwise provided by K.S.A. 44-775, and amendments
thereto, do not exceed eight weeks in duration.
(2) Temporary unemployment does not include partial reduction in
hours or partial unemployment.
(3) The employer shall affirmatively remove the designation of
temporary unemployment if the circumstances giving rise to the
designation materially change, including when the employer no longer has
a reasonable expectation of recall within a determinable period or when
the individual becomes fully unemployed without expectation of recall or
permanently separated, and shall notify the secretary in the manner
prescribed by the secretary.
(4) The secretary may require documentation sufficient to verify that

H Sub SB 229—Am. by HCW

the designation of temporary unemployment is consistent with the
conditions set forth in this subsection.
(5) An extension of additional weeks of temporary unemployment at
the request of an employer for an individual may be granted by the
secretary as provided by K.S.A. 44-775, and amendments thereto.
(6) The maximum amount of temporary unemployment for an
individual in a benefit year, including any extension granted by the
secretary, shall be as provided by K.S.A. 44-775, and amendments thereto.
(7) An individual shall not be considered to be on temporary
unemployment if the employer has no reasonable expectation of recall
within a determinable period or if the designation is used to avoid
obligations otherwise applicable under this act.
(hhh) "Training program" means:
(1) A course or series of courses, classes, apprenticeships or
structured learning activities offered by an educational institution, public
agency or approved provider that is designed to enhance the claimant's
occupational skills, employability or ability to obtain suitable work.
(2) Approved training programs may include, but are not limited to,
those under:
(A) The workforce innovation and opportunity act, 29 U.S.C. Ch. 32;
(B) the trade adjustment assistance act, 19 U.S.C. §§ 2271 et seq.;
(C) community or technical colleges; and
(D) other vocational or remedial instruction approved by the
secretary.
(iii) "Trust fund account" means this state's separate account within
the federal unemployment trust fund:
(1) That is used to hold all contributions collected under the
employment security law; and
(2) from which moneys are requisitioned to the benefit account for
the payment of unemployment insurance benefits.
(jjj) "Trust fund solvency standard" means the minimum financial
benchmark, as recommended by the United States department of labor,
indicating whether a state's unemployment insurance trust fund has
sufficient reserves to withstand a recession, typically measured using the
average high cost multiple.
(lll) "Unemployment insurance benefits" or "unemployment
compensation benefits" means the monetary payments provided to eligible
claimants under the employment security law and federal law for periods
of unemployment, including regular benefits, extended benefits and any
federally funded or supplemental unemployment compensation.
(mmm) "Unemployment" means the status of an individual who
performs no services and receives no wages in a given week or performs
less than full-time work and earns less than such individual's weekly

H Sub SB 229—Am. by HCW

benefit amount.
(nnn) (1) "Unemployment insurance" means the system established
under the employment security law to provide temporary income support
to eligible individuals who are unemployed through no fault of their own
and who meet the requirements set forth in the employment security law.
(2) "Unemployment insurance" includes all benefits, contributions,
eligibility criteria, administrative procedures and enforcement provisions
governed by the employment security law and applicable federal law.
(ooo) "Wage combining plan" means a uniform national
arrangement:
(1) Approved by the United States secretary of labor in consultation
with state unemployment compensation agencies in which the state of
Kansas participates;
(2) where wages earned in one or more participating states are
transferred to another state, referred to as the "paying state," and
combined with wages earned in the paying state, if any, for the purpose of
determining eligibility for and the payment of benefits under the
unemployment compensation laws of the paying state in accordance with
the arrangement approved by the secretary of labor.
(ppp) (1) "Wages" means all forms of compensation provided to an
individual in exchange for services rendered. This includes commissions,
bonuses, back pay and the fair cash value of any noncash remuneration or
benefits. The cash value of noncash compensation shall be determined in
accordance with rules and regulations issued by the secretary.
Compensation that has not been received by the individual within 21 days
after the end of the pay period in which it was earned shall be considered
paid on the 21st day after that pay period. Effective January 1, 1986,
gratuities, including tips received from any source other than the
employing unit, shall be considered wages when reported in writing to the
employer by the employee. Employees must report in writing all tips
totaling $20 or more in a calendar month, whether received directly or
through a credit card from the customer or passed through by the
employer. Wages paid pursuant to back pay awards or settlements shall be
allocated to the specific weeks outlined in the award or agreement. If the
award or agreement lacks such specificity, the secretary shall allocate
such wages to the weeks in which the compensation, in the secretary's
judgment, would have ordinarily been paid.
(2) "Wages" does not include the following:
(A) For calendar years 2016 through 2025, remuneration exceeding
$14,000 paid to an individual in a calendar year by an employer or such
employer's predecessor. If the federal unemployment tax act increases this
threshold, Kansas shall conform to the higher amount;
(B) (i) for contributing rated employers assigned to rate groups 0-

H Sub SB 229—Am. by HCW

N11, beginning in 2026, the following thresholds apply, based on a
percentage of the statewide average annual wage as determined by the
secretary, rounded to the nearest $100:
(a) 2026–2027: 25%;
(b) 2028: 30%;
(c) 2029: 35%;
(d) 2030–2031: 40%; and
(e) 2032 and beyond: 40%, increasing to 45% if any combination of
employer rate schedules G–M is in effect for five consecutive years
following 2031. Once increased to 45%, the threshold shall remain
regardless of future schedule changes; and
(ii) if the federal unemployment tax act is amended to set a higher
threshold than provided above, Kansas shall adopt the federal threshold;
(C) payments made under an employer-established plan or system
covering employees or classes thereof, or such employee's dependents,
made for:
(i) Sickness or accident disability, excluding workers' compensation
payments;
(ii) medical or hospitalization expenses related to sickness or
disability; or
(iii) death benefits;
(D) payments related to sickness, accident or hospitalization made by
an employer after six months following the employee's last month of work;
(E) payments made to or for an employee or beneficiary from a taxqualified retirement plan or annuity, including, but not limited to:
(i) Plans under 26 U.S.C. §§ 401(a), 403(a), 403(b), 408(k) and
457(b);
(ii) supplemental cost-of-living pension payments under 29 U.S.C. §
1002(2)(B)(ii); and
(iii) cafeteria plans under 26 U.S.C. § 125;
(F) employer-paid social security tax for domestic or agricultural
workers, when not deducted from the employee's wages;
(G) noncash remuneration for work outside the employer's trade or
business;
(H) moving expense reimbursements that qualify as deductible under
U.S.C. § 217;
(I) severance or death or disability-related payments made under an
employer-established plan and conditioned on the employee's separation
due to retirement or death;
(J) noncash payments for agricultural labor;
(K) dependent care benefits excludable under 26 U.S.C. § 129;
(L) meals or lodging provided by the employer excludable under 26
U.S.C. § 119;

H Sub SB 229—Am. by HCW

(M) payments made to the estate or survivors of a deceased employee
in the year following the employee's death;
(N) educational or fringe benefits excludable under 26 U.S.C. §§
74(c), 117 or 132;
(O) educational assistance benefits excludable under 26 U.S.C. §
127;
(P) health savings account contributions excludable under 26 U.S.C.
§ 106(d); and
(Q) payments made under an approved employer-funded
supplemental unemployment benefit plan, provided such payments meet
the requirements of 26 U.S.C. § 3306(b)(9) revenue rulings 56-249 and
90-72, and are not paid in a lump sum or in lieu of wages. For recognition
purposes under the Kansas employment security law, such plans shall
comply with the requirements of section 2, and amendments thereto.
(3) None of the exclusions in paragraph (2), except subparagraphs
(2)(A) and (B), shall exclude:
(A) Employer contributions to qualified 401(k) plans not included in
income under 26 U.S.C. § 402(a)(8); or
(B) contributions treated as employer contributions under 26 U.S.C.
§ 414(h)(2).
(4) Deferred compensation under a nonqualified deferred
compensation plan shall be treated as wages at the later of the time that
services are performed or the right to the compensation is no longer
subject to substantial risk of forfeiture. Such deferred wages and their
attributable income shall not be treated as wages again once counted.
"Nonqualified deferred compensation plan" means any plan not described
in paragraph (2)(E).
(qqq) "Week" means a seven-day period as defined by regulation of
the secretary.
Sec. 6. K.S.A. 2025 Supp. 44-704 is hereby amended to read as
follows: 44-704. (a) Payment of benefits. All benefits provided herein shall
be payable from the fund. All benefits shall be paid through the secretary
of labor, in accordance with such rules and regulations as the secretary
may adopt. Benefits based on service in employment defined in K.S.A. 44703(i)(3)(E) and (i)(3)(F), and amendments thereto, shall be payable in the
same amount, on the same terms and subject to the same conditions as
compensation payable on the basis of other service subject to this act
except as provided in K.S.A. 44-705(e) and 44-711(e), and amendments
thereto.
(b) Determined weekly benefit amount. An individual's determined
weekly benefit amount shall be an amount equal to 4.25% of the
individual's total wages for insured work paid during that calendar quarter
of the individual's base period that such total wages were highest, subject

H Sub SB 229—Am. by HCW

to the following limitations:
(1) If an individual's determined weekly benefit amount is less than
the minimum weekly benefit amount, it shall be raised to such minimum
weekly benefit amount;
(2) if the individual's determined weekly benefit amount is more than
the maximum weekly benefit amount, it shall be reduced to the maximum
weekly benefit amount; and
(3) if the individual's determined weekly benefit amount is not a
multiple of $1, it shall be reduced to the next lower multiple of $1.
(c) Maximum weekly benefit amount. For initial claims effective on or
after July 1, 2024, the maximum weekly benefit amount shall be
determined as follows: On July 1 of each year, the secretary shall
determine the maximum weekly benefit amount by computing 55% of the
statewide average weekly wages paid to employees in insured work during
the previous calendar year and shall, prior to that date, announce the
maximum weekly benefit amount so determined by publication in the
Kansas register. Such computation of the statewide average weekly wage
shall be made by dividing the statewide average annual wage, as defined in
K.S.A. 44-703(jj), and amendments thereto, determined for the period of
the previous calendar year, by 52, as set forth by K.S.A. 44-703(kk), and
amendments thereto. The maximum weekly benefit amount so determined
and announced for the 12-month period shall apply only to those claims
filed in that period qualifying for maximum payment under the foregoing
formula. All claims qualifying for payment at the maximum weekly
benefit amount shall be paid at the maximum weekly benefit amount in
effect when the benefit year to which the claim relates was first
established, notwithstanding a change in the maximum benefit amount for
a subsequent 12-month period. If the computed maximum weekly benefit
amount is not a multiple of $1, then the computed maximum weekly
benefit amount shall be reduced to the next lower multiple of $1.
(d) Minimum weekly benefit amount. The minimum weekly benefit
amount payable to any individual shall be 25% of the maximum weekly
benefit amount effective as of the beginning of the individual's benefit
year. If the minimum weekly benefit amount is not a multiple of $1 it shall
be reduced to the next lower multiple of $1. The minimum weekly benefit
amount shall apply through the benefit year, notwithstanding a change in
the minimum weekly benefit amount.
(e) All claims qualifying for payment at the maximum weekly benefit
amount shall be paid at the maximum weekly benefit amount in effect
when the benefit year to which the claim relates was first established,
notwithstanding a subsequent change in the maximum weekly benefit
amount.
(f) Weekly benefit payable. Each eligible individual who is

H Sub SB 229—Am. by HCW

unemployed with respect to any week, except as to final payment, shall be
paid with respect to such week a benefit in an amount equal to such
individual's determined weekly benefit amount, less that part of the wage,
if any, payable to such individual with respect to such week that is in
excess of the amount that is equal to 25% of such individual's determined
weekly benefit amount, and if the resulting amount is not a multiple of $1,
it shall be reduced to the next lower multiple of $1.
(1) For the purposes of this section, remuneration received under the
following circumstances shall be construed as wages:
(A) Vacation or holiday pay that was attributable to a week that the
individual claimed benefits; and
(B) severance pay, if paid as scheduled, and all other employment
benefits within the employer's control, as defined in subsection (f)(3), if
continued as though the severance had not occurred, except as set out in
subsection (f)(2)(C).
(2) For the purposes of this section, remuneration received under the
following circumstances shall not be construed as wages:
(A) Remuneration received for services performed on a public
assistance work project;
(B) severance pay, in lieu of notice, under the provisions of public
law 100-379, the federal worker adjustment and retraining notification act,
U.S.C. §§ 2101 through 2109;
(C) all other severance pay, separation pay, bonuses, wages in lieu of
notice or remuneration of a similar nature that is payable after the
severance of the employment relationship, except as set out in subsection
(f)(1)(B); and
(D) moneys received as federal social security payments.
(3) For the purposes of this subsection, "employment benefits within
the employer's control" means benefits offered by the employer to
employees that are employee benefit plans as defined by section 3 of the
federal employee retirement income security act of 1974, as amended, 29
U.S.C. § 1002, and that the employer has the option to continue to provide
to the employee after the last day that the employee worked for that
employer.
(g) Duration of benefits. Any otherwise eligible individual shall be
entitled during any benefit year to a total amount of benefits equal to
whichever is the lesser of 26 times such individual's weekly benefit
amount, or 1/3 of such individual's wages for insured work paid during such
individual's base period. Such total amount of benefits, if not a multiple of
$1, shall be reduced to the next lower multiple of $1.
(h) For the purposes of this section, wages shall be counted as "wages
for insured work" for benefit purposes with respect to any benefit year
only if such benefit year begins subsequent to the date when the

H Sub SB 229—Am. by HCW

employing unit by whom such wages were paid has satisfied the
conditions of K.S.A. 44-703(h), and amendments thereto, with respect to
becoming an employer.
(i) Notwithstanding any other provisions of this section to the
contrary, any benefit otherwise payable for any week shall be reduced by
the amount of any separation, termination, severance or other similar
payment paid to a claimant at the time of or after the claimant's separation
from employment during the benefit year.
(1) If any payment pursuant to this subsection is paid with respect to
a month, then the amount deemed to be received with respect to any week
during such month shall be computed by multiplying such monthly
amount by 12 and dividing the product by 52. If there is no designation of
the period with respect to which payments to an individual are made under
this section, then an amount equal to such individual's normal weekly
wage shall be attributed to and deemed paid with respect to the first and
each succeeding week following payment of the separation pay to the
individual until such amount so paid is exhausted.
(2) If benefits for any week, when reduced as provided in this
subsection, result in an amount that is not a multiple of $1, such benefits
shall be rounded to the next lower multiple of $1.
(3) Notwithstanding the reemployment provisions of K.S.A. 44705(e), and amendments thereto, any individual whose benefit amount is
completely reduced under this subsection for 52 or more weeks shall, upon
exhaustion of the separation pay, be entitled to a new benefit year based
upon entitlement from the base period of the claim that was reduced.
(j) (1) For weeks commencing on and after September 5, 2021, if at
the beginning of the benefit year, the three-month seasonally adjusted
average unemployment rate for the state of Kansas is: (1) Less than 5%, a
claimant shall be eligible for a maximum of 16 weeks of benefits; (2) at
least 5% but less than 6%, a claimant shall be eligible for a maximum of
weeks of benefits; or (3) at least 6%, a claimant shall be eligible for a
maximum of 26 weeks of benefits.
(2) The maximum number of weeks of benefits allowed in a benefit
year pursuant to paragraph (1) shall apply to the combined total of any
weeks of traditional and temporary unemployment in such benefit year.
(k) Upon the secretary of labor's receipt of notification that the
claimant has become employed, the secretary shall notify the secretary of
the department for children and families in order that the secretary for
children and families may determine the claimant's eligibility for state or
federal benefits provided or facilitated by the department for children and
families. The department of labor and the department for children and
families shall enter into a memorandum of understanding that shall
provide for the transfer of information as provided in this subsection. (a)

H Sub SB 229—Am. by HCW

Benefit payments.
(1) All unemployment insurance benefits shall be paid from the
unemployment insurance trust fund and administered by the secretary of
labor in accordance with applicable rules and regulations.
(2) All benefit payments made under the employment security law
shall be issued with the greatest promptness that is administratively
feasible and in accordance with the standards of promptness established
under 42 U.S.C. § 503(a)(1) and (5) and applicable federal regulations.
(3) The following services shall be paid on equal terms and
conditions as other covered services, except as modified under K.S.A. 44705(e) and 44-711(e), and amendments thereto:
(A) Services for state, local or tribal governments and political
subdivisions, as well as joint instrumentalities with Indian tribes that are
deemed "employment" pursuant to K.S.A. 44-703, and amendments
thereto; and
(B) services for religious, charitable or educational organizations
that are deemed "employment" pursuant to K.S.A. 44-703, and
amendments thereto.
(b) Weekly benefit amount. An individual's weekly benefit amount
shall equal 4.25% of the total wages paid during the highest-earning
calendar quarter in the individual's base period. The weekly benefit
amount is subject to the following:
(1) If the calculated weekly benefit amount is less than the minimum
weekly amount, the calculated weekly benefit amount shall be increased to
such minimum.
(2) If the calculated weekly benefit amount exceeds the maximum
allowed, the calculated weekly benefit amount shall be reduced to the
maximum.
(3) If not a whole dollar, the calculated weekly benefit amount shall
be rounded down to the next lower dollar.
(c) Maximum weekly benefit amount. (1) Beginning July 1, 2024, the
maximum weekly benefit amount shall be 55% of the statewide average
weekly wage from the previous calendar year. The maximum weekly
benefit amount shall remain fixed for the duration of each benefit year. If
the computed amount is not a whole dollar, the maximum weekly benefit
amount shall be rounded down.
(2) Prior to July 1 each year, the secretary shall announce the
maximum weekly benefit amount so determined by publication in the
Kansas register.
(d) Minimum weekly benefit amount. (1) The minimum weekly benefit
amount shall:
(A) Be 25% of the maximum weekly benefit amount that is effective at
the start of the individual's benefit year;

H Sub SB 229—Am. by HCW

(B) remain fixed for that benefit year; and
(C) be rounded down to the nearest whole dollar.
(2) Prior to July 1 each year, the secretary shall announce the
minimum weekly benefit amount so determined by publication in the
Kansas register.
(e) Weekly benefits for partial unemployment. (1) Eligible individuals
shall receive a weekly benefit amount reduced by any wages earned
during the benefit week that exceed 25% of such individual's weekly
benefit amount.
(2) The result shall be rounded down to the nearest dollar.
(f) Treatment of other payments. (1) Payments treated as wages
include:
(A) Vacation or holiday pay that is attributable to the claimed week;
and
(B) severance or employer-provided benefits that continue postseparation, unless excluded below.
(2) Payments not treated as wages include:
(A) Public assistance work program earnings;
(B) severance in lieu of notice under 29 U.S.C. Ch. 23;
(C) lump-sum severance or bonuses unrelated to ongoing benefits;
(D) social security payments; and
(E) payments made under an approved employer-funded
supplemental unemployment benefit plan for the purposes of benefit offset,
provided the plan meets the requirements of 26 U.S.C. § 3306(b)(9), IRS
revenue rulings 56-249 and 90-72 and section 2, and amendments thereto.
(g) Total benefit entitlement during benefit year. (1) (A) Any
otherwise eligible individual shall be entitled to a maximum total amount
of benefits during any benefit year equal to the lesser of:
(i) The individual's determined weekly benefit amount multiplied by
the maximum number of weeks of benefits for which the individual is
eligible during the benefit year as determined pursuant to subsection (h)
of this section; or
(ii) one-third of the individual's wages for insured work paid during
the individual's base period.
(B) Such total amount of benefits, if not a multiple of $1, shall be
reduced to the next lower multiple of $1.
(2) (A) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (1), if an
individual is designated by the individual's employer as being on
temporary unemployment as defined in K.S.A. 44-703, and amendments
thereto, the individual's total benefit entitlement during the benefit year
shall be limited to an amount equal to the individual's determined weekly
benefit amount multiplied by not more than eight weeks, regardless of the
maximum number of weeks otherwise applicable under subsection (h) of

H Sub SB 229—Am. by HCW

this section.
(B) Such limitation shall apply only during the period in which the
individual is designated as being on temporary unemployment and shall
not diminish the individual's remaining balance of benefit entitlement
otherwise payable during the benefit year if the individual subsequently
becomes fully unemployed.
(3) Upon designation of an individual as being on temporary
unemployment, the secretary shall issue a monetary determination to the
employer that submitted the designation. Such determination shall clearly
state that:
(A) Benefits payable during the period of temporary unemployment
are limited to not more than eight weeks; and
(B) benefit exhaustion for purposes of temporary unemployment shall
occur upon payment of eight weeks of benefits, unless an extension is
approved pursuant to K.S.A. 44-775, and amendments thereto.
(4) Benefits paid during a period of temporary unemployment,
including any extension approved pursuant to K.S.A. 44-775, and
amendments thereto, shall be charged in the same manner and to the same
extent as other unemployment insurance benefits paid during the benefit
year and shall not be treated as a separate or nonchargeable category of
benefits.
(5) Upon designation of an individual as being on temporary
unemployment, the secretary shall issue a written notice to the individual.
Such notice shall clearly state that:
(A) Benefits payable during the period of temporary unemployment
are limited to not more than eight weeks;
(B) benefit exhaustion for purposes of temporary unemployment shall
occur upon payment of eight weeks of benefits, unless an extension is
approved pursuant to K.S.A. 44-775, and amendments thereto; and
(C) such limitation applies only during the period of temporary
unemployment and does not reduce the individual's remaining entitlement
to benefits otherwise payable during the benefit year if the individual
subsequently becomes fully unemployed.
(6) Nothing in this subsection shall be construed to alter the
treatment of supplemental unemployment benefit payments made pursuant
to a bona fide supplemental unemployment benefit plan under applicable
state or federal law.
(h) Variable duration based on state unemployment rate. (1) For
weeks commencing on or after September 5, 2021, the maximum total
number of weeks an individual may receive unemployment insurance
benefits during a benefit year, including weeks of traditional
unemployment and temporary unemployment, shall be determined by the
three-month seasonally adjusted average unemployment rate for the state

H Sub SB 229—Am. by HCW

of Kansas at the beginning of the benefit year, as follows. If the seasonally
adjusted average employment rate is:
(A) Less than 5%, the claimant shall be eligible for up to 16 weeks of
benefits;
(B) at least 5% but less than 6%, the claimant shall be eligible for up
to 20 weeks of benefits; and
(C) 6% or higher, the claimant shall be eligible for up to 26 weeks of
benefits.
(i) Qualifying wages. Only wages from employers shall count toward
benefit eligibility.
(j) Reduction for separation payments. Benefits shall be reduced by
any separation pay, termination pay or similar compensation received
after separation.
(1) Monthly payments shall be prorated weekly as follows: Monthly
amount × 12 ÷ 52.
(2) If no period is specified, the claimant's normal weekly wage shall
be assigned until the amount is exhausted.
(3) If benefits are fully offset for 52 or more weeks due to separation
pay, the individual may establish a new benefit year using the same base
period.
(k) Interagency employment notification. When the secretary of labor
receives notice of a claimant's return to work, the secretary shall notify the
secretary for children and families to assess eligibility for other state or
federal assistance. A memorandum of understanding shall govern secure
and timely data exchange between the agencies.
(l) For the purposes of this section, any payments received by a
claimant under an employer-sponsored supplemental unemployment
benefit plan recognized under section 2, and amendments thereto, shall
not be considered wages, earnings or disqualifying income, provided such
plan meets the conditions set forth in subsection (h) of that section.
Sec. 7. K.S.A. 44-704a is hereby amended to read as follows: 44704a. (a) Definitions. As used in this section, unless the context clearly
requires otherwise:
(1) "Extended benefit period" means a period which:
(A) Begins with the third week after a week for which there is an
"on" indicator; and
(B) ends with either of the following weeks, whichever occurs later:
(i) The third week after the first week for which there is an "off" indicator;
or (ii) the 13th consecutive week of such period, except that no extended
benefit period may begin by reason of an "on" indicator before the 14 th
week following the end of a prior extended benefit period which was in
effect with respect to this state.
(2) For the purposes of this section:

H Sub SB 229—Am. by HCW

(A) There is an "on" indicator for this state for a week if the secretary
of labor determines, in accordance with the regulations of the United
States secretary of labor, that, for the period consisting of such week and
the immediately preceding 12 weeks, the rate of insured unemployment
(not seasonally adjusted) under this act: (i) Equaled or exceeded 5% and
equaled or exceeded 120% of the average of such rates for the
corresponding 13-week period ending in each of the preceding two
calendar years and the state of Kansas pays a portion of such benefits in
accordance with the provisions of K.S.A. 44-710(c)(2)(C) and 44-710(e),
and amendments thereto; or (ii) equaled or exceeded 5% and equaled or
exceeded 120% of the average of such rates for the corresponding 13-week
period ending in each of the preceding three calendar years and until on or
before the earlier of the latest date permitted under federal law or the end
of the fourth week prior to the last week for which federal sharing is
provided as authorized by section 2005(a) of public law 111-5 without
regard to section 2005(c) of public law 111-5; or (iii) equaled or exceeded
6%; or (iv) with respect to benefits for weeks of unemployment beginning
after March 6, 1993, (a) the average rate of total unemployment
(seasonally adjusted), as determined by the United States secretary of
labor, for the period consisting of the most recent three months for which
data for all states are published before the close of such week equals or
exceeds 6.5%, and (b) the average rate of total unemployment for this state
(seasonally adjusted), as determined by the United States secretary of
labor, for the three-month period referred to in clause (iv)(a)(1), equals or
exceeds 110% of such average for either or both of the corresponding
three-month periods ending in the two preceding calendar years; or (2)
equals or exceeds 110% of such average for any or all of the
corresponding three-month periods ending in each of the three preceding
calendar years and until on or before the earlier of the latest date permitted
under federal law or the end of the fourth week prior to the last week for
which federal sharing is provided as authorized by section 2005(a) of
public law 111-5 without regard to section 2005(c) of public law 111-5.
(B) (i) There is an "off" indicator for this state for a week if the
secretary of labor determines, in accordance with the regulations of the
United States secretary of labor, that for the period consisting of such week
and the immediately preceding 12 weeks, the rate of insured
unemployment (not seasonally adjusted) under this act: (a) (1) Was less
than 5% or less than 120% of the average of such rates for the
corresponding 13-week period ending in each of the preceding two
calendar years; or (2) was less than 5% or less than 120% of the average of
such rates for the corresponding 13-week period ending in any or all of the
three preceding calendar years and until on or before the earlier of the
latest date permitted under federal law or the end of the fourth week prior

H Sub SB 229—Am. by HCW

to the last week for which federal sharing is provided as authorized by
section 2005(a) of public law 111-5 without regard to section 2005(c) of
public law 111-5; and (b) was less than 5%.
(ii) There is an "off" indicator for this state for a week only if, for the
period consisting of such week and the immediately preceding 12 weeks,
none of the conditions specified in subsection (a)(2)(A) of this section
result in an "on" indicator.
(3) "Rate of insured unemployment," for purposes of paragraphs (2)
(A) and (2)(B) of this subsection, means the percentage derived by
dividing:
(A) The average weekly number of individuals filing claims for
regular benefits in this state for weeks of unemployment with respect to
the most recent 13-consecutive-week period, as determined by the
secretary of labor on the basis of reports to the United States secretary of
labor; by
(B) the average monthly employment covered under this act for the
first four of the most recent six completed calendar quarters ending before
the end of such 13-week period.
(4) "Extended entitlement period" of an individual means the period
consisting of the weeks of the individual's benefit year which begin in an
extended benefit period and, if the individual's benefit year ends within
such extended benefit period, any weeks thereafter which begin in such
period.
(5) "Extended benefits" means benefits (including benefits payable to
federal civilian employees and to ex-service personnel pursuant to 5
U.S.C.A. chapter 85) payable to an individual under the provisions of the
act for weeks of unemployment in the individual's extended entitlement
period.
(6) "Exhaustee" means an individual who, with respect to any week
of unemployment in the individual's extended entitlement period:
(A) Has received, prior to such week, all of the regular benefits that
were available to the individual under this act or any other state law
(including dependents' allowances and benefits payable to federal civilian
employees and ex-service personnel under 5 U.S.C.A. chapter 85) in the
individual's current benefit year that includes such week, provided that, for
the purposes of this paragraph (6)(A), an individual shall be deemed to
have received all of the regular benefits that were available to the
individual although the individual may subsequently be determined to be
entitled to added regular benefits as a result of a pending appeal with
respect to wages that were not considered in the original monetary
determination of the individual's benefit year; or
(B) the individual's benefit year having expired prior to such week,
has no, or insufficient, wages on the basis of which the individual could

H Sub SB 229—Am. by HCW

establish a new benefit year that would include such week; and
(C) (i) has no right to unemployment benefits or allowances, as the
case may be, under the federal railroad unemployment insurance act and
such other federal laws as are specified in regulations issued by the United
States secretary of labor; and (ii) has not received and is not seeking
unemployment benefits under the unemployment compensation law of
Canada; but if the individual is seeking such benefits and the appropriate
agency finally determines that the individual is not entitled to benefits
under such law the individual is considered an exhaustee.
(7) "State law" means the unemployment compensation law of any
state, approved by the United States secretary of labor under section 3304
of the federal internal revenue code of 1986.
(b) Payment of extended benefits. Extended benefits shall be payable
to eligible individuals with respect to weeks of unemployment in their
extended entitlement periods. The extended benefits provided by this
section and K.S.A. 44-704b, and amendments thereto, shall be payable
from the fund. All extended benefits shall be paid through the employment
offices, in accordance with such rules and regulations as the secretary of
labor may adopt.
(c) Beginning and termination of extended benefit period. (1)
Whenever an extended benefit period is to become effective in this state as
a result of an "on" indicator, or an extended benefit period is to be
terminated in this state as a result of an "off" indicator, the secretary of
labor shall make an appropriate public announcement.
(2) Computations required by the provisions of subsection (a)(3) of
this section shall be made by the secretary of labor, in accordance with
regulations prescribed by the United States secretary of labor.
(d) Weekly extended benefit amount. The weekly extended benefit
amount payable to an individual for a week of total unemployment in the
individual's extended entitlement period shall be an amount equal to the
regular weekly benefit amount payable to the individual during the
individual's applicable benefit year, except that for any week during a
period in which federal payments to states under section 204 of the
federal-state extended unemployment compensation act of 1970 are
reduced pursuant to an order issued under section 252 of the federal
balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985, the weekly
extended benefit amount payable to an individual for a week of total
unemployment in the individual's eligibility period shall be reduced by a
percentage amount which is equivalent to the reduction in the federal
payment. If such reduced weekly extended benefit amount is not a
multiple of $1, it shall be reduced to the next lower multiple of $1.
(e) Total extended benefit amount. (1) Except as otherwise provided
in subsection (e)(2) or (e)(3) of this section, the total extended benefit

H Sub SB 229—Am. by HCW

amount payable to any eligible individual with respect to the individual's
applicable benefit year shall be the least of the following amounts:
(A) Fifty percent of the total amount of regular benefits which were
payable to the individual under this act in the individual's applicable
benefit year; or
(B) thirteen times the individual's weekly benefit amount which was
payable to the individual under this act for a week of total unemployment
in the applicable benefit year.
(2) Effective with respect to weeks beginning in a high
unemployment period, the provisions of subsection (e)(1) of this section
shall be applied by substituting "80%" for "50%" in subparagraph (A) of
that subsection (e)(1), and by substituting "20" for "13" in subparagraph
(B) of that subsection (e)(1). For purposes of this subsection (e)(2), the
term "high unemployment period" means any period during which an
extended benefit period would be in effect if the provisions of subsection
(a)(2)(A)(iii) of this section were applied after substituting "8%" for
"6.5%" in clause (a) of that subsection (a)(2)(A)(iii).
(3) During any fiscal year in which federal payments to states under
section 204 of the federal-state extended unemployment compensation act
of 1970 are reduced pursuant to an order issued under section 252 of the
federal balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985, the
total extended benefit amount payable to an individual with respect to the
individual's applicable benefit year shall be reduced by an amount equal to
the total of all of the reductions under subsection (d) of this section in the
weekly extended benefit amounts paid to the individual.
(f) Eligibility requirements for extended benefits. An individual shall
be eligible to receive extended benefits with respect to any week of
unemployment in the individual's extended entitlement period only if the
secretary of labor, or a person or persons designated by the secretary, finds
that with respect to such week:
(1) The individual is an "exhaustee" as defined in subsection (a)(6) of
this section;
(2) the individual is qualified and eligible for extended benefits
pursuant to K.S.A. 44-704b, and amendments thereto;
(3) the individual is entitled to benefits pursuant to the provisions of
this act which apply to claims for, or the payment of regular benefits which
are not inconsistent with the provisions of K.S.A. 44-704b, and
amendments thereto; and
(4) the individual, during the base period, (A) was paid wages for
insured work equal to or greater than 1½ times the amount of total wages
paid for the quarter in which such wages were highest during the
individual's base period; or (B) has been paid an amount equal to or
exceeding 40 times the individual's most recent weekly benefit amount in

H Sub SB 229—Am. by HCW

the individual's base period.
(g) Limitation on amount of combined regular, extended and trade
readjustment act benefits received. Notwithstanding any other provisions
of this section or K.S.A. 44-704b, and amendments thereto, if the benefit
year of any individual ends within an extended entitlement period, the
remaining balance of extended benefits that the individual would, but for
this section, be entitled to receive in that extended entitlement period, with
respect to weeks of unemployment beginning after the end of the benefit
year, shall be reduced (but not below zero) by the product of the number of
weeks for which the individual received any amounts as trade
readjustment allowances within that benefit year, multiplied by the
individual's weekly benefit amount for extended benefits.
(a) Definitions. For the purposes of this section, unless otherwise
indicated:
(1) "Exhaustee" means an individual who, for a given week in the
extended entitlement period:
(A) Has received all regular benefits available under this or another
state's law;
(B) cannot establish a new benefit year due to insufficient wages;
(C) is not eligible for unemployment benefits under 45 U.S.C. Ch. 11;
or
(D) has not received or is not seeking benefits under Canadian law
or has been found ineligible for such benefits.
(2) "Extended benefits" means additional benefits payable under this
act, including for federal employees and ex-service personnel under 5
U.S.C. Ch. 85, during an extended entitlement period.
(3) (A) "Extended benefit period" means a period that begins in the
third week following a week for which there is an "on" indicator and ends
in the later of:
(i) The third week after the first week for which there is an "off"
indicator; or
(ii) the 13th consecutive week of the extended benefit period.
(B) An extended benefit period shall not begin because of an "on"
indicator until at least 14 weeks have passed since the preceding extended
benefit period ended.
(4) "Extended entitlement period" means the weeks within an
individual's benefit year that fall within an extended benefit period and
any weeks beyond such year that fall within the extended benefit period.
(5) "High unemployment period" means a period when the United
States unemployment rate exceeds 8% and Kansas meets federal
thresholds.
(6) "On indicator" means:
(A) An "on" indicator exists for a given week in Kansas if the

H Sub SB 229—Am. by HCW

secretary of labor determines, in accordance with United States
department of labor regulations, that:
(i) The rate of insured unemployment, not seasonally adjusted, for the
most recent 13-week period:
(a) Equals or exceeds 5%;
(b) is at least 120% of the average for the corresponding 13-week
periods in the two preceding calendar years;
(c) Kansas shares in funding extended benefits as provided pursuant
to K.S.A. 44-710, and amendments thereto;
(ii) the insured unemployment rate equals or exceeds 6%; or
(iii) on March 6, 1993:
(a) The United States' seasonally adjusted total unemployment rate
for the most recent 3-month period is at least 6.5%; and
(b) Kansas' 3-month average unemployment rate is at least 110% of
the same period in one or both of the two preceding years.
(B) The secretary shall conduct calculations under subparagraph (A)
(iii) in accordance with federal regulations.
(7) "Off indicator" means an "off indicator" exists if:
(A) None of the "on" indicator conditions are met for a given 13week period; or
(B) the insured unemployment rate falls below 5% or below 120% of
the corresponding periods in prior years.
(8) "Rate of insured unemployment" means the rate that is calculated
as the average weekly number of claims filed during the most recent 13
weeks, divided by the average monthly covered employment for the first
four of the last six completed calendar quarters.
(9) "State law" means the unemployment compensation law of any
state of the United States approved under 26 U.S.C. § 3304.
(b) Payment of extended benefits. Extended benefits shall be paid to
eligible individuals during an extended entitlement period. Payments shall
be made in accordance with rules and regulations adopted by the
secretary of labor. Such benefits shall be paid from the unemployment
insurance trust fund.
(c) Supplemental unemployment benefit plans. Notwithstanding any
other provision of this section, payments made under a supplemental
unemployment benefit plan shall not be included in the computation of
earnings or used to reduce the amount of partial unemployment benefits
otherwise payable under this section.
(d) Notice. When an extended benefit period begins or ends, the
secretary of labor shall issue a public announcement.
(e) Weekly extended benefit amount. The weekly extended benefit
amount equals the individual's regular weekly benefit amount. If federal
reimbursement to states is reduced, benefits shall be reduced

H Sub SB 229—Am. by HCW

proportionally. If not a multiple of $1, the amount shall be rounded down.
(f) Maximum duration of extended benefits. (1) The maximum
extended benefit amount in a benefit year is the lesser of:
(A) 50% of regular benefits paid; or
(B) the individual's weekly benefit amount multiplied by 13.
(2) During a high unemployment period, the limits shall be increased
to 80% and 20 weeks, respectively.
(3) If federal extended benefit funding is reduced, the maximum
payable benefit shall be reduced by the total reductions in weekly benefit
amounts under subsection (e).
(g) Eligibility for extended benefits. To be eligible for extended
benefits, an individual must:
(1) Be an exhaustee;
(2) meet eligibility pursuant to K.S.A. 44-704b, and amendments
thereto;
(3) satisfy all regular unemployment insurance eligibility criteria
consistent with K.S.A. 44-704b, and amendments thereto; and
(4) during the base period, have earned, at a minimum, such
individual's:
(A) Highest quarter wages multiplied by 1.5; or
(B) most recent weekly benefit amount multiplied by 40.
(h) Coordination with trade readjustment allowances. If an individual
received trade readjustment allowances during the benefit year, the
remaining extended benefit balance shall be reduced by the product of:
(1) The number of weeks of trade readjustment allowance received;
and
(2) the individual's weekly extended benefit amount.
Sec. 8. K.S.A. 44-704b is hereby amended to read as follows: 44704b. (a) Cessation of extended benefits when paid under an interstate
claim in a state where an extended benefit period is not in effect:
(1) Except as provided in subsection (a)(2), an individual shall not be
eligible for extended benefits for any week if:
(A) Extended benefits are payable for such week pursuant to an
interstate claim filed in any state under the interstate benefit payment plan;
and
(B) no extended benefit period is in effect for such week in the state
where the claim for extended benefits was filed.
(2) Subsection (a)(1) shall not apply with respect to the first two
weeks for which extended benefits are payable, determined without regard
to this subsection, pursuant to an interstate claim filed under the interstate
benefit payment plan to the individual from the extended benefit account
established for the individual with respect to the benefit year.
(b) Disqualification conditions. (1) An individual shall be disqualified

H Sub SB 229—Am. by HCW

for payment of extended benefits for any week of unemployment in the
individual's extended entitlement period and until the individual has been
employed in each of four subsequent weeks, whether or not consecutive,
and has had earnings of at least four times the weekly extended benefit
amount if the secretary of labor finds that during such period:
(A) The individual failed to accept any offer of suitable work, as
defined under subsection (b)(2), or failed to apply for any suitable work as
defined in subsection (b)(2) to which the individual was referred by the
secretary of labor; or
(B) the individual failed to actively engage in seeking work as
prescribed under subsection (b)(4).
(2) For purposes of this subsection (b), the term "suitable work"
means, with respect to any individual, any work which is within such
individual's capabilities, provided, however, that the gross average weekly
remuneration payable for the work must exceed the sum of:
(A) The individual's weekly extended benefit amount, plus the
amount, if any, of supplemental unemployment benefits, as defined in
section 501(c)(17)(D) of the internal revenue code of 1954, payable to
such individual for such week; and further,
(B) pays wages not less than the higher of:
(i) The minimum wage provided by section 6(a)(1) of the fair labor
standards act of 1938, without regard to any exemption; or
(ii) the applicable state or local minimum wage;
(C) except that no individual shall be denied extended benefits for
failure to accept an offer of or apply for any job which meets the definition
of suitability as described above if:
(i) The position was not offered to such individual in writing by an
employing unit or was not listed with the employment service; or
(ii) such failure could not result in a denial of benefits under the
definition of suitable work for regular benefit claimants in subsection (c)
of K.S.A. 44-706, and amendments thereto, to the extent that the criteria of
suitability in that section are not inconsistent with the provisions of this
subsection (b)(2); or
(iii) the individual furnishes satisfactory evidence to the secretary of
labor that the individual's prospects for obtaining work in the individual's
customary occupation within a reasonably short period are good. If such
evidence is deemed satisfactory for this purpose, the determination of
whether any work is suitable with respect to such individual shall be made
in accordance with the definition of suitable work for regular benefit
claimants in subsection (c) of K.S.A. 44-706, and amendments thereto,
without regard to the definition specified by this subsection (b)(2).
(3) No work shall be determined suitable work for an individual
which does not accord with the labor standard provisions required by

H Sub SB 229—Am. by HCW

section 3304(a)(5) of the internal revenue code of 1954. Notwithstanding
any other provisions of this act, an otherwise eligible individual shall not
be disqualified for refusing an offer of suitable employment, or failing to
apply for suitable employment when notified by an employment office, or
for leaving such individual's most recent work accepted during approved
training, if the acceptance of or applying for suitable employment or
continuing such work would require the individual to terminate approved
training and no work shall be deemed suitable and benefits shall not be
denied under this act to any otherwise eligible individual for refusing to
accept new work under any of the following conditions:
(A) If the position offered is vacant due directly to a strike, lockout or
other labor dispute;
(B) if the remuneration, hours or other conditions of the work offered
are substantially less favorable to the individual than those prevailing for
similar work in the locality; or
(C) if as a condition of being employed, the individual would be
required to join or to resign from or refrain from joining any labor
organization.
(4) For the purposes of subsection (b)(1)(B), an individual shall be
treated as actively engaged in seeking work during any week if:
(A) The individual has engaged in a systematic and sustained effort to
obtain work during such week; and
(B) the individual furnishes tangible evidence that the individual has
engaged in such effort during such week.
(5) The employment service shall refer any individual entitled to
extended benefits under this act to any suitable work which meets the
criteria prescribed in subsection (b)(2). (a) Extended benefits paid through
interstate claims. (1) General disqualification. Except as provided in
paragraph (2), an individual shall not be eligible to receive extended
benefits for any week if:
(A) Such benefits are payable for that week under an interstate claim
filed pursuant to the interstate benefit payment plan; and
(B) no extended benefit period is in effect in the state where the
individual's claim was filed.
(2) Two-week exception. The disqualification under paragraph (1)
shall not apply to the first two weeks of extended benefits payable under
an interstate claim, without regard to this subsection, from the individual's
extended benefit account for the applicable benefit year.
(b) Disqualification from extended benefits. (1) An individual shall be
disqualified from receiving extended benefits for any week of
unemployment during such individual's extended entitlement period and
shall remain disqualified until the individual:
(A) Has been employed for at least four subsequent weeks, whether

H Sub SB 229—Am. by HCW

consecutive or not; and
(B) has earned wages in an amount equal to or greater than four
times such individual's weekly extended benefit amount, if the secretary of
labor finds that, during the extended entitlement period, the individual:
(i) Failed to accept an offer of suitable work as defined in paragraph
(2), or apply for such work when referred by the secretary; or
(ii) failed to actively engage in a search for work as required under
subsection (d).
(2) For the purposes of this subsection, "suitable work" means any
employment that:
(A) Is within the individual's physical and mental capabilities;
(B) provides a gross average weekly remuneration that exceeds the
sum of:
(i) The individual's weekly extended benefit amount; and
(ii) any supplemental unemployment benefits payable for the week
under a recognized employer-sponsored supplemental unemployment
benefits plan that complies with 26 U.S.C. § 501(c)(17)(D) and section 2,
and amendments thereto; and
(C) pays wages that are not less than the greater of:
(i) The federal minimum wage as prescribed in 29 U.S.C. § 206(a)
(1); or
(ii) the applicable state or local minimum wage.
(3) No disqualification shall apply for failure to accept or apply for
work that otherwise meets the criteria in subsection (b)(2) if:
(A) The job offer was not made in writing by an employing unit or
was not listed with the state employment service;
(B) the individual's refusal would not constitute disqualification
pursuant to K.S.A. 44-706(c), and amendments thereto, to the extent such
criteria are not inconsistent with this subsection;
(C) the individual provides satisfactory evidence to the secretary of
labor showing a strong likelihood of reemployment in such individual's
customary occupation within a reasonably short period. In such cases,
suitability shall be determined in accordance with K.S.A. 44-706(c), and
amendments thereto; or
(D) the individual is enrolled in or has been accepted to an approved
training program or is subject to a pending determination under 42 U.S.C.
§ 503(a)(12). In such cases, disqualification for refusal of suitable work
shall not apply during periods of verified participation or pending
eligibility determination.
(c) Labor standards and training protections. No work shall be
considered suitable and no disqualification shall result if:
(1) The position is vacant due to a strike, lockout or other labor
dispute;

H Sub SB 229—Am. by HCW

(2) the wages, hours or other working conditions are substantially
less favorable than those prevailing for similar work in the locality;
(3) acceptance of the position would require the individual to join,
resign from or refrain from joining a labor organization; or
(4) acceptance of or application for the job would require the
individual to terminate or interrupt participation in approved training.
(d) Active work search requirement. An individual shall be deemed to
be actively seeking work during any week if:
(1) The individual has engaged in a systematic and sustained effort to
obtain employment; and
(2) the individual provides tangible, verifiable evidence of job search
activity, including, but not limited to, applications submitted, interviews
attended, contacts with potential employers, use of job boards or
participation in employment services.
(e) Referrals by employment service. The employment service shall
refer individuals receiving extended benefits to any job that meets the
definition of suitable work under subsection (b)(2).
Sec. 9. K.S.A. 2025 Supp. 44-705 is hereby amended to read as
follows: 44-705. Except as provided by K.S.A. 44-757, and amendments
thereto, an unemployed individual shall be eligible to receive benefits with
respect to any week only if the secretary, or a person or persons designated
by the secretary, finds that:
(a) The claimant has registered for work at and thereafter continued
to report at an employment office in accordance with rules and regulations
adopted by the secretary, except that, subject to the provisions of K.S.A.
44-704(a), and amendments thereto, the secretary may adopt rules and
regulations that waive or alter either or both of the requirements of this
subsection.
(b) The claimant has made a claim for benefits with respect to such
week in accordance with rules and regulations adopted by the secretary.
(c) (1) The claimant is able to perform the duties of such claimant's
customary occupation or the duties of other occupations that the claimant
is reasonably fitted by training or experience, and is available for work, as
demonstrated by the claimant's pursuit of the full course of action most
reasonably calculated to result in the claimant's reemployment except that,
notwithstanding any other provisions of this section, an unemployed
claimant otherwise eligible for benefits shall not become ineligible for
benefits:
(A) Because of the claimant's enrollment in and satisfactory pursuit
of approved training, including training approved under section 236(a)(1)
of the trade act of 1974;
(B) solely because such individual is seeking only part-time
employment if the individual is available for a number of hours per week

H Sub SB 229—Am. by HCW

that are comparable to the individual's part-time work experience in the
base period; or
(C) because a claimant is not actively seeking work:
(i) During a state of disaster emergency proclaimed by the governor
pursuant to K.S.A. 48-924 and 48-925, and amendments thereto;
(ii) in response to the spread of the public health emergency of
COVID-19; and
(iii) the state's temporary waiver of the work search requirement
under the employment security law for such claimant is in compliance
with the families first coronavirus response act, public law 116-127.
(2) The secretary shall develop and implement procedures to address
claimants who refuse to return to suitable work or refuse to accept an offer
of suitable work without good cause. Such procedures shall include the
receipt and processing of job refusal reports from employers, the
evaluation of such reports in consideration of the claimant's work history
and skills and suitability of the offered employment and guidelines for a
determination of whether the claimant shall remain eligible for
unemployment benefits or has failed to meet the work search requirements
of this subsection or the requirements of K.S.A. 44-706(c), and
amendments thereto. In determining whether the employment offered is
suitable, the secretary's considerations shall include whether the
employment offers wages comparable to the claimant's recent employment
and work duties that correspond to the claimant's education level and
previous work experience. The secretary shall also consider whether the
employment offers wages of at least the amount of the claimant's
maximum weekly benefits.
(3) To facilitate the requirements of paragraph (2), the secretary shall
provide readily accessible means for employers to notify the department
when a claimant refuses to return to work or refuses an offer of
employment, including by telephone, email or an online web portal. The
secretary shall create or cause to be created in the new unemployment
insurance information technology system as provided by K.S.A. 44-772,
and amendments thereto, an audit process for employers to submit reports
regarding activities related to the work search requirement or to the my
reemployment plan, established by K.S.A. 44-775, and amendments
thereto, and applicants that accept interview appointments but do not
participate or notify the interviewing employer of their inability to
participate in the scheduled interview. The secretary shall not be required
to implement such audit process prior to January 1, 2026. Nothing in this
subsection shall be construed as to require an employer to notify the
department of such job refusals or such failures to appear for a scheduled
interview without notifying the interviewing employer to the department.
(4) At the time of receipt of notice from an employer pursuant to

H Sub SB 229—Am. by HCW

paragraph (3), the secretary shall, within 10 business days of receipt of
such notice from the employer, provide a notice to the claimant who has
refused to return to work or to accept an offer of suitable work without
good cause. The method of providing the notice to the claimant shall be
consistent with other correspondence from the department to the claimant
and may include mail, telephone, email or through an online web portal.
The notice shall, at minimum, include the following information:
(A) A summary of state employment security law regarding a
claimant's duties to return to work or accept suitable work;
(B) a statement that the claimant has been or may be disqualified and
the claimant's right to collect benefits has been or may be terminated for
refusal to return to work or accept suitable work without good cause, as
provided by this subsection and K.S.A. 44-706(c), and amendments
thereto;
(C) an explanation of what constitutes suitable work under the
employment security law; and
(D) instructions for contesting a denial of a claim if the denial is
based upon a report by an employer that the claimant has refused to return
to work or has refused to accept an offer of suitable work.
(5) The secretary shall include notices to all active employers
regarding work search noncompliance reporting options provided in
paragraph (3) in the department of labor's annual summary of benefit
charges pursuant to K.S.A. 44-710b(d), and amendments thereto, and in
the rate notices to employers pursuant to K.S.A. 44-710b(a), and
amendments thereto. The secretary shall not be required to implement such
notice requirements prior to the completion of the new unemployment
insurance information technology system, as provided by K.S.A. 44-772,
and amendments thereto.
(6) For the purposes of this subsection, an inmate of a custodial or
correctional institution shall be deemed to be unavailable for work and not
eligible to receive unemployment compensation while incarcerated.
(d) (1) Except as provided further, the claimant has been unemployed
for a waiting period of one week or the claimant is unemployed and has
satisfied the requirement for a waiting period of one week under the shared
work unemployment compensation program as provided in K.S.A. 44757(k)(4), and amendments thereto, and that period of one week, in either
case, occurs within the benefit year that includes the week for which the
claimant is claiming benefits. No week shall be counted as a week of
unemployment for the purposes of this subsection:
(A) If benefits have been paid for such week;
(B) if the individual fails to meet with the other eligibility
requirements of this section; or
(C) if an individual is seeking unemployment benefits under the

H Sub SB 229—Am. by HCW

unemployment compensation law of any other state or of the United
States, except that if the appropriate agency of such state or of the United
States finally determines that the claimant is not entitled to unemployment
benefits under such other law, this subparagraph shall not apply.
(2) (A) The waiting week requirement of paragraph (1) shall not
apply to:
(i) New claims by claimants who become unemployed as a result of
an employer terminating business operations within this state, declaring
bankruptcy or initiating a work force reduction pursuant to public law 100379, the federal worker adjustment and retraining notification act, 29
U.S.C. §§ 2101 through 2109, as amended; or
(ii) new claims filed on or after April 5, 2020, through December 26,
2020, in accordance with the families first coronavirus response act, public
law 116-127 and the federal CARES act, public law 116-136.
(B) The secretary shall adopt rules and regulations to administer the
provisions of this paragraph.
(3) If the waiting week requirement of paragraph (1) applies, a
claimant shall become eligible to receive compensation for the waiting
period of one week, pursuant to paragraph (1), upon completion of three
weeks of unemployment consecutive to such waiting period. This
paragraph shall not apply to initial claims effective on and after April 1,
2021.
(e) For benefit years established on and after the effective date of this
act, the claimant has been paid total wages for insured work in the
claimant's base period of not less than 30 times the claimant's weekly
benefit amount and has been paid wages in more than one quarter of the
claimant's base period, except that the wage credits of an individual earned
during the period commencing with the end of a prior base period and
ending on the date that such individual filed a valid initial claim shall not
be available for benefit purposes in a subsequent benefit year unless, in
addition thereto, such individual has returned to work and subsequently
earned wages for insured work in an amount equal to at least eight times
the claimant's current weekly benefit amount.
(f) The claimant participates in reemployment services, such as job
search assistance services, if the individual has been determined to be
likely to exhaust regular benefits and needs reemployment services
pursuant to a profiling system established by the secretary, unless the
secretary determines that: (1) The individual has completed such services;
or (2) there is justifiable cause for the claimant's failure to participate in
such services.
(g) The claimant is returning to work after a qualifying injury and has
been paid total wages for insured work in the claimant's alternative base
period of not less than 30 times the claimant's weekly benefit amount and

H Sub SB 229—Am. by HCW

has been paid wages in more than one quarter of the claimant's alternative
base period if:
(1) The claimant has filed for benefits within four weeks of being
released to return to work by a licensed and practicing health care
provider;
(2) the claimant files for benefits within 24 months of the date the
qualifying injury occurred; and
(3) the claimant attempted to return to work with the employer where
the qualifying injury occurred, but the individual's regular work or
comparable and suitable work was not available.Except as provided by
K.S.A. 44-757, and amendments thereto, an unemployed individual is
eligible to receive benefits for any week only if the secretary of labor or a
designated representative determines that all of the following conditions
are met:
(a) Work registration. (1) The claimant has registered for work and
continues to report to an authorized employment office in accordance with
regulations adopted by the secretary.
(2) The secretary may waive or modify this requirement by rule,
including for individuals participating in approved reemployment or
training programs pursuant to K.S.A. 44-704(a), and amendments thereto.
(3) All eligibility and availability requirements under the employment
security law shall be construed and administered in accordance with 20
C.F.R. part 604 and any successor regulations issued by the United States
department of labor to ensure conformity with 42 U.S.C. § 503(a)(12).
(b) Weekly claim filing. (1) The claimant has filed a claim for benefits
for the applicable week, following the procedures established by the
secretary.
(2) (A) All claims, forms, notices and documents required or
permitted under the employment security law may be filed, submitted or
issued by electronic means, including through secure online systems, email
or other electronic platforms, provided such methods are consistent with
federal law, including 20 C.F.R. part 640 and related United States
department of labor guidance.
(B) Electronic transmission and signatures shall carry the same legal
effect as paper-based methods in accordance with K.S.A. 16-1601 et seq.,
and amendments thereto, unless otherwise prohibited by federal law.
(c) Availability for work and work refusal. (1) The claimant shall be
able and available to work, as demonstrated by actively pursuing
reemployment in the claimant's customary occupation or another field for
which the claimant is reasonably qualified by experience or training. The
claimant shall not be disqualified solely because such claimant:
(A) Is enrolled in and satisfactorily pursuing approved training,
including training under 19 U.S.C. § 2296(a)(1);

H Sub SB 229—Am. by HCW

(B) is seeking part-time work consistent with such claimant's base
period experience and is available for a comparable number of hours per
week;
(C) is temporarily excused from active work search under a declared
state of disaster emergency or public health emergency, such as COVID19, in compliance with applicable federal law.
(2) (A) Claimants may be disqualified for refusing an offer of suitable
work or failing to apply for suitable work, unless good cause is shown.
The secretary shall consider:
(i) The claimant's work history, skills and past wages;
(ii) whether the offer involves comparable duties, conditions and
wages; and
(iii) whether the offer meets or exceeds the claimant's weekly benefit
amount.
(B) Work shall not be deemed suitable and shall not disqualify the
claimant if:
(i) The job was not formally offered or listed with the employment
service;
(ii) the job would not qualify as suitable work pursuant to K.S.A. 44706(c), and amendments thereto; or
(iii) the claimant can demonstrate a reasonable expectation of
returning to such claimant's own customary occupation in a short period.
(3) The secretary shall provide a telephone, email and online web
portal for employers to optionally report:
(A) Claimant refusals to return to work or accept a job offer;
(B) failures to appear for scheduled interviews; and
(C) noncompliance with the my reemployment plan, K.S.A. 44-775,
and amendments thereto, or work search requirements. An automated
audit process for such reports shall be implemented and maintained under
the unemployment insurance system.
(4) (A) Upon receiving an employer's report under paragraph (3), the
secretary shall notify the claimant within 10 business days. The notice
shall include:
(i) A summary of relevant legal obligations;
(ii) a statement that eligibility may be denied due to refusal of
suitable work;
(iii) an explanation of what constitutes suitable work; and
(iv) instructions for contesting a potential denial.
(B) The claimant shall have 10 business days from the date of such
notice to respond or submit evidence contesting the potential
disqualification. Failure to respond within the time period may result in
denial of benefits, subject to appeal rights provided pursuant to K.S.A. 44709, and amendments thereto.

H Sub SB 229—Am. by HCW

(5) Information about work search noncompliance reporting options
shall be included in annual benefit charge summaries and rate notices sent
to employers pursuant to K.S.A. 44-710b(a) and (d), and amendments
thereto.
(6) An individual who is incarcerated in a correctional or custodial
institution shall be deemed unavailable for work and ineligible for benefits
during the period of confinement.
(7) No individual shall be denied unemployment compensation under
the employment security law solely on the basis of such individual's
immigration status if such individual is lawfully present and authorized to
work in the United States, in accordance with 42 U.S.C. § 503(a)(10).
(d) Waiting week requirement. (1) The claimant shall be unemployed
for a waiting period of one week within the benefit year. No compensation
shall be paid for the waiting week and it shall not count if:
(A) Benefits were paid for the week;
(B) other eligibility conditions were not met; or
(C) the claimant is seeking benefits under another state or federal
law, unless ultimately denied under that law.
(2) (A) The waiting week requirement does not apply to new claims
arising from business closures, bankruptcy or mass layoffs subject to 29
U.S.C. Ch. 23.
(B) The secretary shall adopt rules and regulations to implement this
subsection. The waiting week requirement may be waived for claims
resulting from employer closures, mass layoffs covered by 29 U.S.C. Ch.
or during periods of declared public emergency or disaster, as
authorized by federal waivers or conformity guidance issued under 42
U.S.C. § 503 or applicable United States department of labor rules.
(e) Base period earnings. (1) To qualify for benefits, the claimant
shall have:
(A) Earned total wages for insured work equal to at least 30 times the
weekly benefit amount during the base period; and
(B) earned wages in more than one calendar quarter of the base
period.
(2) Wages earned after the end of the base period may not be used
again unless the claimant has returned to work and earned at least eight
times the current weekly benefit amount in new wages for insured work.
(f) Reemployment services participation. A claimant identified
through the secretary's profiling system as likely to exhaust regular
benefits shall participate in reemployment services, such as job search
assistance, unless:
(1) The claimant has already completed such services; or
(2) the claimant has justifiable cause for nonparticipation.
(g) Qualifying injury and alternative base period. Claimants

H Sub SB 229—Am. by HCW

returning from a qualifying injury may establish benefit eligibility using an
alternative base period if:
(1) The claim is filed within four weeks of medical clearance to
return to work;
(2) the injury occurred within the past 24 months; and
(3) the claimant attempted to return to such claimant's former
employer, but no suitable position was available.
(h) Supplemental unemployment benefit plan payments. Payments
received under a supplemental unemployment benefit plan recognized in
accordance with section 2, and amendments thereto, shall not affect a
claimant's eligibility determination, availability for work status or job
search requirements, provided such payments meet the conditions
described in subsection (h) of that section.
Sec. 10. K.S.A. 2025 Supp. 44-706 is hereby amended to read as
follows: 44-706. The secretary shall examine whether an individual has
separated from employment for each week claimed. The secretary shall
apply the provisions of this section to the individual's most recent
employment prior to the week claimed. An individual shall be disqualified
for benefits:
(a) If the individual left work voluntarily without good cause
attributable to the work or the employer, subject to the other provisions of
this subsection. For purposes of this subsection, "good cause" is cause of
such gravity that would impel a reasonable, not supersensitive, individual
exercising ordinary common sense to leave employment. Good cause
requires a showing of good faith of the individual leaving work, including
the presence of a genuine desire to work. Failure to return to work after
expiration of approved personal or medical leave, or both, shall be
considered a voluntary resignation. After a temporary job assignment,
failure of an individual to affirmatively request an additional assignment
on the next succeeding workday, if required by the employment
agreement, after completion of a given work assignment, shall constitute
leaving work voluntarily. The disqualification shall begin the day
following the separation and shall continue until after the individual has
become reemployed and has had earnings from insured work of at least
three times the individual's weekly benefit amount. An individual shall not
be disqualified under this subsection if:
(1) The individual was forced to leave work because of illness or
injury upon the advice of a licensed and practicing healthcare provider
and, upon learning of the necessity for absence, immediately notified the
employer thereof, or the employer consented to the absence, and after
recovery from the illness or injury, when recovery was certified by a
practicing health care provider, the individual returned to the employer and
offered to perform services and the individual's regular work or

H Sub SB 229—Am. by HCW

comparable and suitable work was not available. As used in this paragraph
"healthcare provider" means any person licensed by the proper licensing
authority of any state to engage in the practice of medicine and surgery,
osteopathy, chiropractic, dentistry, optometry, podiatry or psychology;
(2) the individual left temporary work to return to the regular
employer;
(3) the individual left work to enter active service in the armed forces
of the United States but was rejected or delayed from entry;
(4) The spouse of an individual who is a member of the armed forces
of the United States who left work because of the voluntary or involuntary
transfer of the individual's spouse from one job to another job that is for
the same employer or for a different employer, at a geographic location
that makes it unreasonable for the individual to continue work at the
individual's job. For the purposes of this provision "member of the armed
forces" means a person performing active service in the army, navy,
marine corps, air force, space force, coast guard or any component of the
military reserves of the United States;
(5) the individual left work because of hazardous working conditions;
in determining whether or not working conditions are hazardous for an
individual, the degree of risk involved to the individual's health, safety and
morals, the individual's physical fitness and prior training and the working
conditions of workers engaged in the same or similar work for the same
and other employers in the locality shall be considered; as used in this
paragraph, "hazardous working conditions" means working conditions that
could result in a danger to the physical or mental well-being of the
individual; each determination as to whether hazardous working
conditions exist shall include, but shall not be limited to, a consideration
of: (A) The safety measures used or the lack thereof; and (B) the condition
of equipment or lack of proper equipment; no work shall be considered
hazardous if the working conditions surrounding the individual's work are
the same or substantially the same as the working conditions generally
prevailing among individuals performing the same or similar work for
other employers engaged in the same or similar type of activity;
(6) the individual left work to enter training approved under section
236(a)(1) of the federal trade act of 1974, provided the work left is not of a
substantially equal or higher skill level than the individual's past adversely
affected employment, as defined for purposes of the federal trade act of
1974, and wages for such work are not less than 80% of the individual's
average weekly wage as determined for the purposes of the federal trade
act of 1974;
(7) the individual left work because of unwelcome harassment of the
individual by the employer or another employee of which the employing
unit had knowledge and that would impel the average worker to give up

H Sub SB 229—Am. by HCW

such worker's employment;
(8) the individual left work to accept better work; each determination
as to whether or not the work accepted is better work s
