SECOND REGULAR SESSION
[TRULY AGREED TO AND FINALLY PASSED]
SENATE SUBSTITUTE FOR
SENATE COMMITTEE SUBSTITUTE FOR

SENATE BILL NO. 905
103RD GENERAL ASSEMBLY
5720S.04T

AN ACT
To amend chapter 590, RSMo, by adding thereto one new section relating to a training program
for Missouri rangers.
Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

Section A. Chapter 590, RSMo, is amended by adding thereto

one new section, to be known as section 590.1300, to read as

follows:

590.1300.

1.

The POST commission shall establish a

training program to be known as the "Missouri Rangers", and

shall establish minimum standards for training instructors,

training centers, and training programs that focus on

preventing and responding to emergency or violent crisis

situations in school settings.

2.

(1) Each person seeking entrance into the Missouri

rangers training program shall submit an authorization for a

criminal history background check to include the records of

the Federal Bureau of Investigation to the training center

or training program where such person is seeking entrance.

The training center or training program shall cause a

criminal history background check to be made and shall cause

the resulting report to be forwarded to the agency where the

applicant is seeking to be designated as a Missouri ranger.

(2)

After a person has submitted an application, but

prior to entry to the training program, each applicant shall

take a physical fitness test:

(a)

For applicants aged twenty-one to thirty-five:

a.

Run one and one-half miles in less than twelve

minutes and thirty seconds;

b.

Complete a minimum of four pull-ups;

c.

Complete a minimum of forty pushups in less than

one minute; and

d.

Complete fifty crunches in less than one minute;

(b)

The POST commission shall promulgate lower age-

appropriate standards for applicants aged thirty-six to

forty-five and for applicants over the age of forty-six;

(3)

No former or retired military personnel shall be

admitted to a Missouri ranger training center or training

program unless such person has received an honorable

discharge.

3.

The arrest powers granted to any person who

successfully completes the Missouri ranger training program

shall be limited to:

(1)

Missouri rangers who are actively employed by the

school or school district;

(2)

Any property or premises owned, leased, rented, or

possessed by the school or school district, including any

school bus owned, operated, or contracted for in service on

behalf of the district while involved in school activities;

and

(3)

Offenses established under chapter 571 and any

offense under section 569.140 or 569.155 involving school

property.

The provisions of this subsection shall not apply to any

person who is an active law enforcement officer.

4.

The POST commission shall develop a training

program of not more than one hundred sixty hours that shall

include:

(1)

Close quarter combat; building security and

hardening; bomb and arson; de-escalation; implicit and

racial bias; active shooter training; preventative

behavioral threat assessments; state and federal

constitutional and statutory law relating to search and

seizure, as relating to the arrests Missouri rangers are

permitted to make; firearms training; defensive tactics; an

abbreviated "stop the bleed" first aid training; and any

other related training deemed necessary by POST;

(2)

The POST commission shall promulgate an

abbreviated training program for applicants that are active

or retired law enforcement officers, or active or retired

military personnel, including active or retired members of

the National Guard.

shall mean any law enforcement officer with ten or more

years of experience.

5.

As used in this section, "retired"

The POST commission shall promulgate rules for

continuing education training for all Missouri rangers.

rule or portion of a rule, as that term is defined in

section 536.010, that is created under the authority

delegated in this section shall become effective only if it

complies with and is subject to all of the provisions of

chapter 536 and, if applicable, section 536.028.

section and chapter 536 are nonseverable and if any of the

powers vested with the general assembly pursuant to chapter

to review, to delay the effective date, or to disapprove

and annul a rule are subsequently held unconstitutional,

Any

This

then the grant of rulemaking authority and any rule proposed

or adopted after August 28, 2026, shall be invalid and void.

6.

The POST commission may develop a part-time

training program, provided such program satisfies all of the

requirements of this section.

7.

A certificate of Missouri ranger training program

completion may be issued to any applicant by any approved

Missouri ranger training instructor.

program completion, the approved Missouri ranger training

instructor shall affirm that the individual receiving

instruction has taken and passed a Missouri ranger training

program that meets the requirements of this section.

instructor shall also provide a copy of such certificate to

the director of the department of public safety.

8.

On the certificate of

The

Upon successful completion of the training program,

each person shall receive a certificate and a Missouri

ranger badge.

9.

The front and back of the outermost garment of the

ranger uniform shall have capitalized block letters spelling

"RANGER".

10.

(1)

Notwithstanding the provisions of subsections

and 7 of section 160.665, subdivision (10) of subsection 1

of section 571.030, subdivision (10) of subsection 1 of

section 571.107, or any other provision of law to the

contrary, a Missouri ranger may, if authorized by the hiring

school or school district, carry a firearm or firearms,

whether loaded or unloaded, or any other weapon readily

capable of lethal use into the school, onto any school bus

owned, operated, or contracted for by the school or school

district, or onto any property or premises owned, leased,

rented, or possessed by the school or school district;

(2)

It shall be the decision of the hiring school or

school district whether a ranger shall carry a firearm or

firearms or any other weapon readily capable of lethal use

as provided in subdivision (1) of this subsection while on

duty, which type of firearm or firearms or any other weapon

the ranger shall carry, and whether the firearm, firearms,

or weapons shall be concealed;

(3)

Each ranger shall use a level three retention

holster if open carrying a pistol while on duty.
11.

For the purposes of liability and workers'

compensation only, Missouri rangers shall be considered

employees of the school or school district that hires them.

All other benefits for which an employee of the school or

school district may be eligible, such as health and

retirement benefits, may be offered to the ranger at the

discretion of the school or school district.

employed by a school or school district may be compensated

as full- or part-time employees, or on a volunteer basis

without compensation.

duty rule shall apply to the provisions of this section as

interpreted by the federal and state courts.

Rangers

Qualified immunity and the public

✓
