GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF NORTH CAROLINA
SESSION 2025
H

H.B. 315
Mar 5, 2025
HOUSE PRINCIPAL CLERK

D
HOUSE BILL DRH30152-ML-103

Short Title:

Gift Card Theft & Unlawful Business Entry.

Sponsors:

Representative Pyrtle.

(Public)

Referred to:

A BILL TO BE ENTITLED
AN ACT TO ESTABLISH AN OFFENSE FOR WRONGFULLY ENTERING A PART OF A
BUILDING NOT OPEN TO THE PUBLIC; TO ESTABLISH THE OFFENSE OF
LARCENY OF GIFT CARDS; AND TO REVISE THE ORGANIZED RETAIL THEFT
OFFENSE TO INCLUDE OFFENSES INVOLVING GIFT CARDS.
The General Assembly of North Carolina enacts:
SECTION 1. G.S. 14-54 is amended by adding a new subsection to read:
"(b1) Any person who knowingly and wrongfully enters any area of a building (i) that is
commonly reserved for personnel of a commercial business where money or other property is
kept or (ii) clearly marked with a sign that indicates to the public that entry is forbidden is guilty
of a Class 1 misdemeanor for a first offense and a Class I felony for a second or subsequent
offense."
SECTION 2. Article 16 of Chapter 14 of the General Statutes is amended by adding
a new section to read:
"§ 14-72.12. Larceny of gift cards; receiving stolen gift cards or possessing stolen gift cards.
(a)
Definitions. – For purposes of this section, the terms "gift card," "gift card issuer,"
"gift card redemption information," and "gift card value" are as defined in G.S. 14-86.5.
(b)
Offense. – A person commits the offense of larceny of gift cards if the person does
any of the following:
(1)
Acquires or retains possession of a gift card or gift card redemption
information without the consent of the cardholder or card issuer.
(2)
Obtains a gift card or gift card redemption information from a cardholder or
card issuer by means of false or fraudulent pretenses, representations, or
promises.
(3)
Alters or tampers with a gift card or its packaging with intent to defraud
another.
(c)
Punishment. – A violation of this section is a Class 1 misdemeanor if the value of the
gift card acquired, retained, or for which the card redemption information is obtained, or is altered
or tampered with, is not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000). Any other violation of this
section is a Class H felony."
SECTION 3. G.S. 14-86.5 reads as rewritten:
"§ 14-86.5. Definitions.
The following definitions apply in this Article:
(1)
"Retail property." – Any article, product, commodity, item, or component
intended to be sold in retail commerce.Gift card. – A record evidencing a
promise, made for monetary consideration, by a seller or issuer that goods or

*DRH30152-ML-103*

General Assembly Of North Carolina

Session 2025

services will be provided to the owner of the record to the value shown in the
record. A gift card includes a record that contains a microprocessor chip,
magnetic strip, or other storage medium that is prefunded and for which the
value is adjusted upon each use, a gift certificate, a stored-value card or
certificate, a store card, or a prepaid long-distance telephone service that is
activated by a prepaid card that required dialing an access number or an access
code in addition to dialing the phone number to which the user of the prepaid
card seeks to connect.
(2)
Repealed by Session Laws 2024-22, s. 2(a), effective December 1, 2024, and
applicable to offenses committed on or after that date.
(3)
"Theft." – To take possession of, carry away, transfer, or cause to be carried
away the retail property of another with the intent to steal the retail
property.Gift card issuer. – Any person or entity that sells, distributes, or
supplies a gift card.
(4)
"Value." – The retail value of an item as advertised by the affected retail
establishment, to include all applicable taxes.Gift card redemption
information. – Any information unique to a gift card that allows the cardholder
to access, transfer, or spend the funds on that gift card.
(5)
Gift card value. – The maximum monetary value that can be applied to the
card.
(6)
Retail property. – Any article, product, commodity, item, or component
intended to be sold in retail commerce.
(7)
Theft. – To take possession of, carry away, transfer, or cause to be carried
away the retail property of another with the intent to steal the retail property.
(8)
Value. – The retail value of an item as advertised by the affected retail
establishment, to include all applicable taxes."
SECTION 4. G.S. 14-86.6 reads as rewritten:
"§ 14-86.6. Organized retail theft.
(a)
Offense. – A person commits the offense of organized retail theft if the person does
any of the following:
(1)
Conspires with another person to commit theft of retail property from retail
establishments with the intent to sell, transfer, or possess that retail property
for monetary or other gain.
(2)
Receives or possesses any retail property that has been taken or stolen in
violation of subdivision (1) of this subsection while knowing or having
reasonable grounds to believe the property is stolen.
(3)
Conspires with two or more other persons as an organizer, supervisor,
financier, leader, or manager to engage for profit in a scheme or course of
conduct to effectuate or intend to effectuate the transfer or sale of property
stolen from a merchant in violation of this section.
(4)
Conspires with another person to acquire or retain possession of a gift card or
gift card redemption information without the consent of the cardholder or card
issuer.
(5)
Devises a scheme with one or more persons to obtain a gift card or gift card
redemption information from a cardholder or card issuer by means of false or
fraudulent pretenses, representations, or promises.
(6)
Conspires with another person to alter or tamper with a gift card or its
packaging with intent to defraud another.
…
(a2) Punishments. – The following classifications apply to the offense of organized retail
theft:
Page 2

DRH30152-ML-103

General Assembly Of North Carolina

(1)

(2)

(3)

(4)

Session 2025

An offense when the gift card value or the retail property has a value
exceeding one thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500) aggregated over a
90-day period is a Class H felony.
An offense when the gift card value or the retail property has a value
exceeding twenty thousand dollars ($20,000) aggregated over a 90-day period
is a Class G felony.
An offense when the gift card value or the retail property has a value
exceeding fifty thousand dollars ($50,000) aggregated over a 90-day period is
a Class F felony.
An offense when the gift card value or the retail property has a value
exceeding one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) aggregated over a 90-day
period is a Class C felony.

…
(c)
Multiple Thefts. – Thefts of gift cards, gift card redemption information, or retail
property occurring in more than one county may be aggregated into an alleged violation of this
section. Each county where a part of the charged offense occurs has concurrent venue as
described in G.S. 15A-132."
SECTION 5. Prosecutions for offenses committed before the effective date of this
act are not abated or affected by this act, and the statutes that would be applicable but for this act
remain applicable to those prosecutions.
SECTION 6. This act becomes effective December 1, 2025, and applies to offenses
committed on or after that date.

DRH30152-ML-103

Page 3
