Florida Senate - 2026

By Senator Massullo

2026490__
A bill to be entitled

An act relating to public records; amending s.

119.0712, F.S.; expanding an exemption from public

records requirements for e-mail addresses collected by

the Department of Highway Safety and Motor Vehicles

for providing renewal notices to include e-mail

addresses collected for use as a method of

notification generally and not only for the purpose of

providing renewal notices; expanding the exemption to

include e-mail addresses collected for use as a method

of notification related to vessel registrations;

providing retroactive applicability; providing for

future legislative review and repeal of the exemption;

providing a statement of public necessity; providing a

contingent effective date.

Be It Enacted by the Legislature of the State of Florida:

Section 1.

Paragraph (c) of subsection (2) of section

119.0712, Florida Statutes, is amended to read:
119.0712 Executive branch agency-specific exemptions from
inspection or copying of public records.—

(2) DEPARTMENT OF HIGHWAY SAFETY AND MOTOR VEHICLES.—

(c) E-mail addresses collected by the Department of Highway

Safety and Motor Vehicles pursuant to s. 319.40(3), s.

320.95(2), or s. 322.08(10), or s. 328.30 are exempt from s.

119.07(1) and s. 24(a), Art. I of the State Constitution. This

exemption applies retroactively. This paragraph is subject to

the Open Government Sunset Review Act in accordance with s.
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

2026490__

119.15 and shall stand repealed on October 2, 2031, unless

reviewed and saved from repeal through reenactment by the

Legislature.

Section 2.

The Legislature finds that it is a public

necessity that e-mail addresses collected by the Department of

Highway Safety and Motor Vehicles for the use of e-mail in lieu

of the United States Postal Service as a method of notification

be made exempt from s. 119.07(1), Florida Statutes, and s.

24(a), Article I of the State Constitution. Sections 320.95(2)

and 322.08(10), Florida Statutes, authorize the department to

collect e-mail addresses and use e-mail in lieu of the United

States Postal Service to provide renewal notices related to

motor vehicle license plates, driver licenses, and

identification cards. The department is also authorized to

collect e-mail addresses and use e-mail to provide renewal

notices related to vessel registrations pursuant to s.

328.30(3), Florida Statutes. SB 488 expands the circumstances in

which e-mail may be used in lieu of the United States Postal

Service by authorizing e-mail to be used as a method of

notification for various notices and orders issued by the

department in addition to renewal notices, including, but not

limited to, notices related to driver licenses, identification

cards, motor vehicle registrations, vessel registrations, and

orders to revoke, cancel, or suspend driver licenses. The

department’s use of e-mail as a method for corresponding with

customers has steadily increased in recent decades. E-mail

addresses are unique to each individual and, when combined with

other personal identifying information, can be used for identity

theft, consumer scams, unwanted solicitations, or other invasive
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

2026490__

contacts. The public availability of personal e-mail addresses

puts the department’s customers at increased risk of these

problems. Such risks may be significantly limited by permitting

the department to keep customer e-mail addresses exempt. The

Legislature finds that these risks to consumers outweigh the

state’s public policy favoring open government.

Section 3.

This act shall take effect on the same date that

SB 488 or similar legislation takes effect, if such legislation

is adopted in the same legislative session or an extension

thereof and becomes a law.

CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.
