Senate File 2505 - Introduced
SENATE FILE 2505
BY COMMITTEE ON WAYS AND MEANS
(SUCCESSOR TO SF 2445)
(SUCCESSOR TO SSB 3057)
(COMPANION TO HF 2756 BY
COMMITTEE ON WAYS AND MEANS)

A BILL FOR

An Act relating to licensing of service companies, motor
vehicle service contracts, and residential service
contracts, and providing civil penalties and including
effective date provisions.
BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF THE STATE OF IOWA:

TLSB 5468SZ (2) 91
nls/ko

Section 1. Section 523C.1, Code 2026, is amended by adding
the following new subsections:
NEW SUBSECTION. 1A. “Communicating in a verifiable
manner” means communication by in-person delivery, first
class mail, email, or, if there is an auditable record of the
communication, by telephone or software application on an
electronic device.
NEW SUBSECTION. 1B. “Gross consideration” means the total
value of a service contract without deducting any expenses or
costs.
NEW SUBSECTION. 6A. “Person” means an individual or a
business entity.
NEW SUBSECTION. 12A. “Service contract holder” means the
original purchaser of a service contract or the successor in
interest or transferee entitled to services under the service
contract.
NEW SUBSECTION. 12B. “Substitute part” means a part that is
not issued by the original part manufacturer, including but not
limited to a remanufactured part, an aftermarket part, and a
part obtained from a salvage yard.
NEW SUBSECTION. 12C. “Support services” means a person that
provides services that support, or a person that works under
the direction of, a licensed service company in connection with
the issuance, offer for sale, sale, or administration of a
service contract in this state, including but not limited to a
person that provides marketing, administrative, or technical
support to a service company.
Sec. 2. Section 523C.1, subsection 4, Code 2026, is amended
to read as follows:
4. “Motor vehicle” means any vehicle that is self-propelled
vehicle and subject to registration under chapter 321.
Sec. 3. Section 523C.1, subsection 10, Code 2026, is amended
to read as follows:
10. “Residential service contract” means a contract or
agreement between a residential customer and a service company

nls/ko

1/22

which undertakes, for a predetermined fee and for any period
of time, to service, maintain, repair, replace, or indemnify
expenses for all or any part of the operational or structural
components, appliances, or electrical, mechanical, plumbing,
heating, cooling, or air-conditioning systems of residential
property in the state which fails due to normal wear or tear or
inherent defect. “Residential service contract” also includes
a contract which provides for the service, repair, replacement,
or maintenance of property for, or damage resulting from power
surges, roof leakage, and or accidental damage.
Sec. 4. Section 523C.2, Code 2026, is amended by striking
the section and inserting in lieu thereof the following:
523C.2 License required.
1. A person shall not, directly or indirectly, issue,
offer for sale, or sell, a motor vehicle service contract or
residential service contract in this state unless the person
is licensed under this chapter.
2. This chapter shall not apply to any person that provides
support services. A service company that utilizes support
services shall ensure the support services’ compliance with the
issuance, offer for sale, or sale of a service contract under
this chapter.
3. A service company shall maintain a license for the
duration of time that the service company is contractually
obligated to a service contract holder under the terms of a
service contract, unless otherwise ordered by the commissioner
after a hearing conducted pursuant to chapter 17A.
4. A service company shall report to the commissioner
within thirty calendar days any material change to the
information submitted by the service company in the service
company’s initial license application, or license renewal
application, including a change in the service company’s
contact information, ownership, officers, or directors
directly responsible for the service company’s service contract
business, or any other change that substantially affects the

nls/ko

2/22

service company’s operations in the state.
5. A service company shall report to the commissioner any
final disposition of an administrative action taken against
the service company related to the service company’s service
contract business in another jurisdiction within thirty
calendar days of final disposition of the administrative
action. The report must include a copy of the order, consent
to the order, and other relevant legal documents.
6. Within thirty calendar days of the initial pretrial
hearing date, a service company shall report to the
commissioner a criminal prosecution in any jurisdiction of an
owner with more than a ten percent ownership stake, an officer,
or a director directly responsible for the service contract
business of the service company, for an offense involving
dishonesty or a false statement including but not limited
to fraud, theft, misappropriation of funds, falsification
of documents, deceptive acts or practices, or other related
offenses. The report must include a copy of the initial
complaint filed, the order resulting from the hearing, and any
other relevant legal documents.
7. A residential service contract and a motor vehicle
service contract shall not be considered insurance.
Sec. 5. Section 523C.3, Code 2026, is amended by striking
the section and inserting in lieu thereof the following:
523C.3 Application for license.
1. Application for a license as a service company shall
be filed with the commissioner on a form approved by the
commissioner and must include all of the following information:
a. The name and principal address of the applicant.
b. The state of incorporation of the applicant.
c. The name and address of the applicant’s registered agent
for service of process in Iowa.
d. The legal name of all of the following:
(1) Each owner of the service company that has a greater
than ten percent ownership stake in the service company.

nls/ko

3/22

(2) Each officer of the service company.
(3) Each director directly responsible for the business of
the service company.
e. Evidence that the applicant has obtained any necessary
authority from the secretary of state to transact business in
this state. An applicant whose home state is not this state
shall provide a certification, dated not more than thirty
calendar days after the date of submission of an application,
from the applicant’s home state that certifies the applicant is
in good standing in the applicant’s home state.
f. Evidence of compliance with section 523C.5.
g. A copy of each motor vehicle service contract form to be
used, issued, or offered for sale in this state by the service
company.
h. A copy of each residential service contract form to be
used, issued, or offered for sale in this state by the service
company.
i. A national association of insurance commissioners’
biographical affidavit for the chief executive officer and
chief financial officer of the service company, or for the
individuals in equivalent positions.
j. A list of any disciplinary actions taken against the
service company, or any of the service company’s owners who
have an ownership stake in the service company of more than
ten percent, officers, or directors directly responsible for
the provider’s service contract business, in the immediately
preceding five consecutive years by a regulatory agency or
state attorney general in any jurisdiction.
2. The application must be accompanied by a license fee in
the amount of five hundred dollars.
3. If the application for a service company license contains
the information under subsection 1, is accompanied by the
fees under subsection 2, includes any additional information
requested by the commissioner to verify the information in
the application, and the commissioner has not denied the

nls/ko

4/22

application pursuant to section 523C.9, the commissioner shall
issue the license to the applicant.
4. Fees collected under this section shall be deposited
into the service company oversight fund as provided in section
523C.24.
Sec. 6. Section 523C.4, Code 2026, is amended by striking
the section and inserting in lieu thereof the following:
523C.4 License expiration and renewal.
1. A license issued under this chapter shall be valid for a
period of one year and shall be renewed annually on or before
August 31. A licensee must apply for renewal at least ninety
calendar days prior to the license expiration date. A license
that is not renewed prior to the expiration date may be deemed
expired.
2. An application for license renewal must include the
information required for an initial license as described in
section 523C.3, subsection 1, paragraphs “a” through “f”,
and a list of each service contract form the service company
continues to use, offer for sale, or issue in the state,
including the service contract form name, number, and the date
the form was last revised.
3. The license renewal application must be accompanied by
all of the following:
a. A license renewal fee in the amount of two hundred
dollars.
b. A fee in the amount of three percent of the aggregate
amount of payments the service company received for the sale or
issuance of residential service contracts in this state, less
any refunds issued, during the immediately preceding calendar
year, provided that such fee must be no greater than fifty
thousand dollars.
c. In a format prescribed by the commissioner, information
regarding service contracts in this state for the service
company in the immediately preceding calendar year itemized as
follows:

nls/ko

5/22

(1) The number of motor vehicle service contracts issued.
(2) The number of residential service contracts issued.
(3) The number of motor vehicle service contracts canceled.
(4) The number of residential service contracts canceled.
(5) The number of motor vehicle service contracts that
expired.
(6) The number of residential service contracts that
expired.
(7) The number of motor vehicle service contracts in effect
on December 31 of the immediately preceding calendar year.
(8) The number of residential service contracts in effect on
December 31 of the immediately preceding calendar year.
(9) The total dollar amount of motor vehicle service
contract fees received by the service company.
(10) The total dollar amount of residential service
contract fees received by the service company.
4. If the license renewal application complies with this
section, includes any additional information requested by the
commissioner to verify the information in the application, and
the commissioner has not refused to renew the license pursuant
to section 523C.9, the commissioner shall renew the license.
If the commissioner refuses renewal of a license pursuant to
section 523C.9, the refusal shall be in writing setting forth
the grounds for the refusal.
5. If a service company submits a license renewal
application after the license has expired, the service company
shall pay a reinstatement fee of eight hundred dollars, and the
applicable fees pursuant to subsection 3.
6. A service company whose license has expired shall not
offer, extend, or renew a service contract until the service
company’s license has been renewed or the service company has
been issued a new license.
Sec. 7. Section 523C.7, Code 2026, is amended by striking
the section and inserting in lieu thereof the following:
523C.7 Disclosure to service contract holders —— contract

nls/ko

6/22

form —— required provisions.
1. A service contract shall not be issued, sold, or offered
for sale in this state unless the service company does all of
the following:
a. Provides a receipt for the purchase of the service
contract to the service contract holder.
b. Provides a complete sample copy of the service contract
to the consumer prior to purchase. A service company may
comply with this paragraph by providing the consumer with a
complete electronic sample copy of the service contract, or
directing the consumer to a complete sample copy of the service
contract on an internet site.
c. Provides a fully executed paper or electronic copy of
the service contract to the service contract holder within ten
business days of the date the service contract holder purchased
the service contract. A paper copy of the executed service
contract shall be provided to the service contract holder upon
request of the service contract holder at the expense of the
service company.
2. A service contract issued, sold, or offered for sale in
the state must comply with all of the following, as applicable:
a. A service contract must be written in clear,
understandable language in at least eight point type.
b. (1) A service contract insured under a reimbursement
insurance policy as provided in section 523C.5, subsection 1,
must include a statement in substantially the following form:
Obligations of the service company under this service contract
are guaranteed under a reimbursement insurance policy. If the
service company fails to pay or provide service on a claim
within sixty days after proof of loss has been filed with
the service company, the service contract holder is entitled
to make a claim directly against the reimbursement insurance
policy.
(2) A service contract insured under a reimbursement
insurance policy must conspicuously state the name and address

nls/ko

7/22

of the issuer of the reimbursement insurance policy for that
service contract. A claim against a reimbursement insurance
policy must also include a claim for return of any refund due
in accordance with paragraphs “m” and “n”.
c. A service contract not insured under a reimbursement
insurance policy must contain a statement in substantially the
following form:
Obligations of the service company under this service contract
are backed by the full faith and credit of the service company
and are not guaranteed under a reimbursement insurance policy.
d. A service contract must state the name and address of
the service company obligated to perform services under the
contract, and must conspicuously identify the service company,
any third-party administrator, and the service contract holder
to the extent that the name and address of the service contract
holder has been furnished. The identities of such parties
shall not be required to be printed on the contract in advance
and may be added to the contract at the time of sale.
e. A service contract must clearly state the total purchase
price of the service contract and the terms under which the
service contract is sold. The total purchase price shall not
be required to be printed on the contract in advance and may be
added to the contract at the time of sale.
f. If prior approval of repair work is required, a service
contract must conspicuously describe the procedure for
obtaining prior approval and for making a claim, including a
toll-free telephone number for claim service, and the procedure
for obtaining emergency repairs performed outside of normal
business hours.
g. A service contract must clearly state any waiting period
applicable to coverage under the service contract.
h. A service contract must clearly state the existence of
any deductible amount.
i. A service contract must specify the merchandise or
services, or both, to be provided and any limitations,

nls/ko

8/22

exceptions, or exclusions.
j. A service contract must clearly state the conditions on
which the use of substitute parts or services will be allowed.
Such conditions must comply with applicable state and federal
laws.
k. A service contract must clearly state any terms,
restrictions, or conditions governing the transferability of
the service contract.
l. A service contract must clearly state the instructions
for cancellation of the service contract by the service
contract holder. Cancellation instructions must include the
phone number, email address, or mailing address necessary for
the cancellation of the service contract. A service company
shall accept cancellation of a service contract from a service
contract holder by one or more of the following methods:
(1) Telephone.
(2) Email.
(3) The method utilized by the service company to enter into
the service contract with the service contract holder.
m. A service contract must clearly state the terms and
conditions governing the cancellation of the contract prior
to the termination or expiration date of the contract by the
service company or the service contract holder. If the service
company cancels the contract, the service company shall mail a
written notice of termination to the service contract holder at
least fifteen calendar days before the date of the termination.
Prior notice of cancellation by the service company shall not
be required if the reason for cancellation is nonpayment of the
purchase price, a material misrepresentation by the service
contract holder to the service company or the support services
for the service company, or a substantial breach of duty by the
service contract holder relating to the covered product or use
of the covered product. The notice of cancellation must state
the effective date of the cancellation and the reason for the
cancellation. If a service contract is canceled by the service

nls/ko

9/22

company for any reason other than nonpayment of the purchase
price, the service company shall refund the service contract
holder in an amount equal to one hundred percent of the
unearned purchase price paid, calculated on a pro rata basis
based upon elapsed time or mileage, less any claims paid. The
service company may also charge a reasonable administrative fee
in an amount no greater than ten percent of the total purchase
price. A penalty of ten percent of the original dollar amount
of the refund shall be added to the refund each month if the
refund is not paid to the service contract holder within thirty
calendar days.
n. (1) A service contract must permit the original service
contract holder who purchased the contract to cancel the
service contract within at least thirty calendar days of the
effective date of the service contract, provided no claims
have been paid under the service contract, or within a longer
period of time as permitted under the service contract. If
a claim has not been paid under the service contract prior
to cancellation by the service contract holder, the service
contract is void and the full purchase price of the service
contract shall be refunded to the service contract holder. A
penalty of ten percent of the original dollar amount of the
refund shall be added to the refund each month if the refund is
not paid to the service contract holder within thirty calendar
days, unless the service contract holder fails to provide the
information required by the service contract to complete the
cancellation.
(2) If the service contract holder cancels the service
contract in violation of subparagraph (1), the service company
shall refund the service contract holder an amount equal to one
hundred percent of the unearned purchase price paid, calculated
on a pro rata basis based upon elapsed time or mileage,
less any claims paid. The service company may also charge a
reasonable administrative fee in an amount no greater than ten
percent of the total purchase price. A penalty of ten percent

nls/ko

10/22

of the original dollar amount of the refund shall be added to
a refund each month if the refund is not paid to the service
contract holder within thirty calendar days of the service
contract cancellation request, unless the service contract
holder fails to provide the information required in the service
contract to complete the cancellation.
o. A service contract must set forth all obligations and
duties of the service contract holder, including but not
limited to the duty to protect against any further damage, and
the obligation to follow an owner’s manual and to perform, or
have performed, all required service or maintenance.
p. A service contract must clearly state if the contract
covers or excludes consequential damages and preexisting
conditions, if applicable. A service contract may, but is not
required to, cover damage resulting from rust, corrosion, or
damage caused by a part or system not covered under the service
contract.
q. A service contract must clearly state the service call
fee, if any, charged to the service contract holder.
r. A service contract must state the name and address of
the commissioner, the current toll-free telephone number of the
division, and a statement that a consumer may file a complaint
with the division, including by filing a complaint on the
division’s internet site.
s. A service contract must state that if the claim covered
under a residential service contract relates to the total
loss of heating, cooling, or plumbing, or substantial loss of
electrical service, and the claim being made by the service
contract holder is essential to the health and safety of the
service contract holder or, if applicable, the service contract
holder’s family, the service company shall ensure all of the
following:
(1) Repair or replacement of the essential good commences
within forty-eight hours after the report of the claim, and is
completed as soon as reasonably practicable.

nls/ko

11/22

(2) Notice is provided to the service contract holder if a
repair cannot practicably be completed within three calendar
days after the report of the claim. The service company shall
provide a status report to the service contract holder by
communicating in a verifiable manner as soon as practicable,
but no later than three calendar days after the date of the
report of the claim. The status report must include all of the
following:
(a) A list of all required repairs, replacements, or
services, and the estimated cost to the service contract holder
if known.
(b) The primary reason the required repair, replacement, or
service will take longer than three calendar days, including
the status of all parts required for the repair, replacement,
or service.
(c) The current estimated length of time to complete the
repair, replacement, or service.
(d) The telephone number of the service company in the
event the service contract holder or the commissioner wants
to make an inquiry concerning the claim, and a commitment by
the service company to respond to an inquiry no later than one
business day after the date the inquiry is received.
Sec. 8. NEW SECTION. 523C.8 Service contract forms —— fees.
1. A service company shall file with the division an
accurate copy of each service contract form prior to using the
service contract form for the sale of a service contract in
this state.
2. At the time of filing a new or modified motor vehicle
service contract form with the division a service company
shall pay a fee in the amount of thirty-five dollars for a new
or modified motor vehicle service contract form filed with
the division. If a service company files a modified motor
vehicle service contract form, and the only modification to the
motor vehicle service contract form is information required
by section 523C.7, subsection 2, paragraph “r”, the service

nls/ko

12/22

company shall not be required to pay a fee for filing the
modified motor vehicle service contract form.
3. Notwithstanding section 523C.7, a service company may
continue to use a service contract form that is noncompliant
with this chapter until January 1, 2028, provided no changes
are made to the service contract form and the service contract
form was filed with the division before January 1, 2027.
Sec. 9. Section 523C.9, Code 2026, is amended by striking
the section and inserting in lieu thereof the following:
523C.9 License denial, nonrenewal, suspension, or revocation.
1. The commissioner may, at the commissioner’s discretion
and without advance notice or hearing, immediately suspend a
service company’s license if the commissioner finds that any of
the following are true:
a. The service company is insolvent or impaired.
b. A proceeding for receivership, conservatorship,
rehabilitation, or other delinquency proceeding regarding the
service company has been commenced in any state.
c. The financial condition or business practices of the
service company otherwise pose an imminent threat to the public
health, safety, or welfare of the residents of this state.
2. The commissioner may suspend or revoke the license of,
deny an application for a license from, or refuse to renew the
license of, a service company, or may levy a civil penalty as
provided in section 523C.13 against a service company, for any
of the following reasons:
a. The service company violated this chapter, a lawful
order, regulation, or subpoena issued by the commissioner or a
regulatory authority of another state.
b. The service company failed to pay a final judgment
rendered against the service company in this state within sixty
calendar days after the date the judgment became final.
c. The service company, without just cause, refused
to perform, or negligently or incompetently performed, a
service required to be performed under the service company’s

nls/ko

13/22

service contracts and the refusal, or negligent or incompetent
performance, has occurred with such frequency as determined by
the commissioner, as to indicate the general business practices
of the service company.
d. The service company violated section 523C.13.
e. The service company failed to demonstrate financial
responsibility pursuant to section 523C.5, if applicable.
f. The service company failed to maintain a corporate
certificate of good standing pursuant to section 523C.3,
subsection 1.
g. The service company provided incorrect, misleading,
incomplete, or materially untrue information in the service
company’s license application.
h. The service company obtained or attempted to obtain a
license through misrepresentation or fraud.
i. The service company improperly withheld, misappropriated,
or converted any money or property received in the course of
business as a service company.
j. The service company intentionally misrepresented the
terms of an actual or proposed service contract.
k. Within the immediately preceding ten consecutive years,
an owner who has an ownership stake in the service company
of more than ten percent, an officer, or a director directly
responsible for the business of the service company has been
convicted of a criminal offense involving any aspect of a
business involving securities, commodities, investments,
franchises, insurance, banking, or finance.
l. An owner who has an ownership stake in the service
company of more than ten percent, an officer, or a director
directly responsible for the business of the service company
has been convicted of a criminal offense involving dishonesty
or a false statement, including but not limited to fraud,
theft, misappropriation of funds, falsification of documents,
deceptive acts or practices, or other related offenses.
m. The service company admitted to committing, or was found

nls/ko

14/22

to have committed, any unfair trade practice or fraud.
n. The service company used fraudulent, coercive,
or dishonest practices, or demonstrated incompetence,
untrustworthiness, or financial irresponsibility, in conducting
business in this state or any other state.
o. The service company had a service company license or its
equivalent, denied, suspended, or revoked in any other state,
province, district, or territory.
p. The service company failed, or refused, to cooperate in
an investigation conducted by the commissioner of insurance.
q. The commissioner has found the service company to be
incompetent, untrustworthy, financially irresponsible, or not
of good personal or business reputation.
r. The service company has refused to be examined or to
produce the service company’s accounts, records, or files for
examination, or any individual responsible for the conduct
of the affairs of the service company has refused to provide
information with respect to the service company’s affairs or
has refused to perform any other legal obligation as to an
examination.
s. The service company has engaged, directly or indirectly,
in an unfair method of competition or unfair or deceptive act
or practice.
3. If the commissioner suspends or revokes the license of,
denies the application for licensure of, or refuses to renew
the license of, a service company pursuant to this section, the
commissioner shall notify the service company in writing and
provide the reason for the suspension, revocation, denial, or
nonrenewal. The licensee or applicant may request a hearing
on the suspension, revocation, nonrenewal, or denial, and a
hearing shall be conducted according to chapter 17A.
Sec. 10. Section 523C.13, Code 2026, is amended by striking
the section and inserting in lieu thereof the following:
523C.13 Prohibited acts or practices —— penalty —— violations
—— contracts voided.

nls/ko

15/22

1. A service company, or the service company’s support
services, that offers service contracts for sale in this state
shall not, directly or indirectly, represent in any manner,
whether by written solicitation or telemarketing, a false,
deceptive, or misleading statement with respect to any of the
following:
a. The service company’s affiliation with a motor vehicle
manufacturer or importer.
b. The validity or expiration of a warranty.
c. A motor vehicle service contract holder’s coverage
under a motor vehicle service contract, including statements
suggesting that the service contract holder must purchase a
new service contract in order to maintain coverage under the
existing service contract or warranty.
d. Descriptions of the service contract as a “policy”.
2. A licensed service company which offers service
contracts for sale in this state shall not, directly or
indirectly, do any of the following:
a. Fail to attempt, in good faith, to effectuate the prompt,
fair, and equitable resolution of a claim made under a service
contract.
b. Create or use any advertising that does not include the
name of the licensed service company or direct consumers to an
internet site where the name of the licensed service company
can be found.
c. Use any method of marketing that may induce the purchase
of a service contract through force, fear, or threats, whether
explicit or implied.
d. Create or use any service contract marketing materials
that contain incorrect or misleading information.
e. Use, offer for sale, or issue in this state a service
contract form that has not been submitted as part of a license
application pursuant to section 523C.3, as part of a license
application renewal pursuant to section 523C.4, or submitted
to the division during the service company’s current license

nls/ko

16/22

period.
3. The commissioner may adopt rules pursuant to
chapter 17A that regulate service contracts to prohibit
misrepresentation, false advertising, defamation, boycotts,
coercion, intimidation, false statements and entries, and
unfair discrimination or practices.
4. After a hearing, if the commissioner finds that a person
violated this chapter or a rule adopted under this chapter,
the commissioner may order the person to cease and desist from
the violation and may order the person to pay a civil penalty
of not more than one thousand dollars for each violation, not
to exceed an aggregate of ten thousand dollars, unless the
person knew or reasonably should have known the person was in
violation of this chapter, in which case the civil penalty
shall be no more than five thousand dollars for each violation,
not to exceed an aggregate of fifty thousand dollars in any
one consecutive six-month period. If the commissioner finds a
violation of this chapter was directed, encouraged, condoned,
ignored, or ratified by the employer of such person or by a
service company, the commissioner shall assess a penalty to the
employer or service company. Any civil penalties collected
under this subsection shall be deposited as provided in section
505.7.
5. A violation of this section or section 523C.7 constitutes
an unlawful practice pursuant to section 714.16.
6. A service contract issued or sold in this state by a
service company that was not licensed as a service company at
the time the service contract was issued or sold shall be void
and unenforceable.
Sec. 11. Section 523C.22, Code 2026, is amended to read as
follows:
523C.22 Claim procedures.
A licensed service company shall promptly provide a written
explanation to the service contract holder, describing the
reasons for denying a claim or for the offer of a compromise

nls/ko

17/22

settlement, based on all relevant facts or legal requirements
and referring to applicable provisions of the service contract.
The written explanation must include the process for filing a
complaint with the division, including the division’s internet
site for accessing the complaint form.
Sec. 12. Section 523C.23, subsection 1, paragraph b, Code
2026, is amended by adding the following new subparagraphs:
NEW SUBPARAGRAPH. (4) During an investigation or
proceeding conducted under this chapter, the commissioner or
any designee of the commissioner may administer oaths and
affirmations, subpoena witnesses, compel witnesses’ attendance,
take evidence, and require the production of any records
which the commissioner deems relevant or material to the
investigation or proceeding.
NEW SUBPARAGRAPH. (5) Conduct an investigation of a
suspected violation of this chapter and enforce the provisions
of, and impose any penalty or remedy authorized by, this
chapter against any person who is under investigation for, or
charged with, a violation of this chapter even if the person’s
license has been surrendered or has lapsed by operation of law.
Sec. 13. Section 523C.23, subsection 1, paragraph c, Code
2026, is amended by striking the paragraph.
Sec. 14. Section 523C.23, subsection 3, Code 2026, is
amended by striking the subsection.
Sec. 15. NEW SECTION. 523C.25 Confidentiality.
1. Notwithstanding chapter 22, the commissioner shall
maintain the confidentiality of information submitted to the
division or obtained by the division in the course of an
investigation, examination, or inquiry pursuant to this chapter
or the commissioner’s licensing authority, including all notes,
work papers, or other documents. Information obtained by
the commissioner in the course of investigating a complaint
or inquiry may, at the discretion of the commissioner, be
provided to the service company that is the subject of the
complaint or inquiry and the consumer who filed the complaint

nls/ko

18/22

or inquiry, without waiving the confidentiality afforded to
the commissioner or to any other person by this section. The
commissioner may disclose or release information that is
otherwise confidential under this subsection in the course of
an administrative or judicial proceeding.
2. Notwithstanding subsection 1, if the commissioner
determines that it is necessary in the public interest, the
commissioner may share information submitted to the division
or obtained by the division in the course of an investigation,
examination, or inquiry pursuant to this chapter with other
regulatory authorities or government agencies.
3. Notwithstanding subsection 1, if the commissioner
determines that it is necessary in the public interest, the
commissioner may publish service company-related data or
information submitted to the division or obtained by the
division in the course of an investigation, examination, or
inquiry pursuant to this chapter. Such information may be
redacted so that neither personally identifiable information
nor service company identifiable information is made available.
4. Notwithstanding subsection 1, the commissioner may
publish on the division’s internet site the name, physical
address, telephone number, and license status of any service
company submitted to the division or obtained by the division
in the course of an investigation, examination, or inquiry
pursuant to this chapter.
Sec. 16. Section 714.16, subsection 2, Code 2026, is amended
by adding the following new paragraph:
NEW PARAGRAPH. t. It is an unlawful practice for a person
to violate section 523C.7 or 523C.13.
Sec. 17. EFFECTIVE DATE. This Act takes effect January 1,
2027.
EXPLANATION

The inclusion of this explanation does not constitute agreement with
the explanation’s substance by the members of the general assembly.

This bill relates to the licensing of service companies,

nls/ko

19/22

motor vehicle service contracts, and residential service
contracts.
The bill prohibits a person from issuing, offering for sale,
or selling a motor vehicle service contract or residential
service contract in the state unless the person is a licensed
service company. The requirements of the bill do not apply to
any person who provides support services. “Support services”
is defined in the bill.
A service company shall maintain a license for the entirety
of any service contract that the service company has entered,
unless otherwise ordered by the commissioner of insurance
(commissioner) after a hearing. A service company shall report
to the commissioner within 30 calendar days any material
change to the information submitted in the initial or renewal
application, within 30 days of any final disposition of an
administrative action taken against the service company related
to the service company’s service contract business, and within
30 days of the initial pretrial hearing date in a criminal
prosecution against the service company as detailed in the
bill.
A residential service contract and motor vehicle service
contract shall not be considered insurance.
An application for a license as a service company shall
be filed with the commissioner, include all information as
described in the bill, and be accompanied by a $500 license
fee. A license as a service company is valid for one year and
must be renewed annually on or before August 31 of each year
following the date of issuance. A licensee must apply for
renewal at least 90 days prior to the license expiration date.
An application for license renewal shall include the
information required for an initial license, a list of each
service contract form, any additional information requested
by the commissioner to verify the information in the renewal
application, and the information and fees as described in the
bill. If the renewal application meets the requirements, the

nls/ko

20/22

commissioner shall renew the license unless otherwise denied,
in which case the denial shall be in writing.
If a service company fails to renew their license on or
before the end of the license period, the company’s license may
be deemed expired. If a service company submits an application
or renewal application after the license has expired, the
service company shall file a service company license renewal
application, including payment of applicable fees.
A service contract shall not be issued, sold, or offered for
sale unless the service company complies with the requirements
of the bill.
A service contract issued, sold, or offered for sale in
the state shall comply with all requirements described in the
bill. The requirements for a residential service contract that
relates to goods that are essential to the health and safety of
the service contract holder are detailed in the bill.
A service company may continue to use a noncompliant service
contract form until January 1, 2028, provided no changes are
made to the form, and the service contract form was filed with
the division before January 1, 2027.
The commissioner may, at the commissioner’s discretion
and without advanced notice or hearing, immediately suspend
a service company’s license if the commissioner finds that
any of the circumstances detailed in the bill are true. The
commissioner may suspend or revoke the license of, deny an
application for license from, or refuse to renew the license
of a service company, or may levy a civil penalty against a
service company, as described in the bill, and shall notify the
service company in writing of the reason for the suspension,
revocation, nonrenewal, or denial. The licensee or applicant
may request a hearing.
A service company that offers service contracts for sale,
or the service company’s support services, shall not represent
in any manner a false, deceptive, or misleading statement with
respect to the service company’s affiliation with a motor

nls/ko

21/22

vehicle manufacturer or importer, the validity or expiration
of a warranty, or a motor vehicle service contract holder’s
coverage under a motor vehicle service contract, and shall not
describe the service contract as a policy.
A service company shall not engage in a prohibited act
or practice as detailed in the bill. The commissioner
may adopt rules regulating service contracts to prohibit
misrepresentation, false advertising, defamation, boycotts,
coercion, intimidation, false statements and entries, and
unfair discrimination or practices. After a hearing, if the
commissioner finds that a person has violated the bill or rules
adopted under the bill, the commissioner may order the person
to cease and desist from the violation and may order the person
to pay a civil penalty. A violation of the bill constitutes
an unlawful practice. A service contract issued or sold by a
service company that was not licensed at the time the service
contract was issued or sold shall be void and unenforceable.
A written explanation to a service contract holder of a
denial of a claim or offer of a settlement shall include the
information detailed in the bill.
The duties of the commissioner during an investigation,
proceeding, examination, or inquiry are detailed in the bill.
The commissioner shall maintain the confidentiality of
information submitted to the division or obtained by the
division in the course of an investigation, examination, or
inquiry, including all notes, work papers, or other documents
and the information as described in the bill. The commissioner
may disclose or release information that is otherwise
confidential in the circumstances detailed in the bill.
The bill takes effect on January 1, 2027.

nls/ko

22/22
