Session of 2026

HOUSE BILL No. 2716
By Committee on Transportation
Requested by Representative Essex on behalf of Representative Steele
2-5

AN ACT concerning motor vehicles; relating to license plates; permitting a
person with a disability to be issued one special license plate for each
vehicle owned, registered and operated by such person; amending
K.S.A. 8-1,125 and repealing the existing section.
Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Kansas:
Section 1. K.S.A. 8-1,125 is hereby amended to read as follows: 81,125. (a) Any Kansas resident who submits satisfactory proof to the
director of vehicles, on a form provided by the director, that such person is
a person with a disability or is responsible for the transportation of a
person with a disability shall be issued a special license plate or a
permanent placard for any motor vehicle owned by such person or shall be
issued a temporary placard. Satisfactory proof of disability, condition or
impairment shall include a statement from a person licensed to practice the
healing arts in any state, a licensed optometrist, an advanced practice
registered nurse licensed under K.S.A. 65-1131, and amendments thereto,
a licensed physician assistant or a Christian Science practitioner listed in
The Christian Science Journal certifying that such person is a person with
a disability. The placard shall be suspended immediately below the rear
view mirror of any motor vehicle used for the transportation of a person
with a disability so as to be maximally visible from outside the vehicle. In
addition to the special license plate or permanent placard, the director of
vehicles shall issue to the person with a disability an individual
identification card which that must be carried by the person with a
disability when the motor vehicle being operated by or used for the
transportation of such person is parked in accordance with the provisions
of K.S.A. 8-1,126, and amendments thereto. In addition to the temporary
placard, a person issued such temporary placard shall carry the state or
county receipt showing the name of the person who is issued such
temporary placard. Except as otherwise provided in subsection (h), a
person submitting satisfactory proof that such person's disability, condition
or impairment is permanent in nature, and upon such person's request and
payment of the fees prescribed in subsection (b), shall be issued an
individual identification card and: (1) A permanent placard; (2) a
permanent placard and a special license plate; or (3) a permanent placard

HB 2716

and a wheelchair emblem decal to be affixed to a distinctive license plate.
Upon proper request, one additional permanent placard shall be issued to
the applicant who has not requested and received a special license plate.
Upon proper request, one additional temporary placard shall be issued to
the applicant certified as temporarily disabled. Temporary placards shall
have an expiration date of not longer than six months from the date of
issuance. The special license plates, decals and placards shall display the
international symbol of access to the physically disabled.
(b) Special license plates issued pursuant to this section shall be
issued for the same period of time as other license plates are issued or for
the remainder of such period if an existing license plate is to be exchanged
for the special license plate. There shall be no fee for such special license
plates in addition to the regular registration fee. Except as otherwise
provided in this subsection, no person responsible for the transportation of
a person with a disability shall be issued more than one special license
plate, except that. Agencies or businesses which that provide
transportation for persons with a disability as a service, may obtain
additional special license plates for vehicles which that are utilized in the
provision of that service. Special license plates may be personalized
license plates subject to the provisions of K.S.A. 8-132, and amendments
thereto, including the payment of the additional fee.
(c) Placards and individual identification cards issued pursuant to this
section shall be valid as long as the person or a person responsible for the
transportation of a person with a disability is eligible for a special license
plate or permanent placard. The secretary of revenue shall promulgate the
rules and regulations necessary to remain compliant with 23 C.F.R. §
1235.4.
(d) The color of the permanent placard shall be white on a blue
background and the temporary placard shall be white on a red background.
(e) In addition to such other information contained on individual
identification cards, cards shall have the date of birth and the sex of the
person to whom the card is issued.
(f) Permanent placards and individual identification cards shall be
returned to the department of revenue upon the death of the person with a
disability. Temporary placards shall be returned to the department of
revenue upon the expiration of the placard or upon the death of the person
with a disability. Special license plates shall be returned to the county
treasurer to be exchanged for another license plate upon the death of the
person with a disability. The individual identification cards issued with the
special license plates shall be returned to the department of revenue upon
the death of the person with a disability.
(g) Violation of subsection (f) is an unclassified misdemeanor
punishable by a fine of not more than $50.

HB 2716

(h) Upon request, a person with a disability who submits satisfactory
proof to the director of vehicles that such person's disability, condition or
impairment is permanent in nature as required by subsection (a) and
provides payment of the regular registration fees prescribed in subsection
(b) shall be issued one special license plate for each such motor vehicle
that such person with a disability owns, registers and operates.
Sec. 2. K.S.A. 8-1,125 is hereby repealed.
Sec. 3. This act shall take effect and be in force from and after its
publication in the statute book.
