Session of 2026

House Substitute for SENATE BILL No. 404
By Committee on Transportation
3-18

AN ACT concerning motor vehicles; relating to vehicle registrations;
creating the vehicle services modernization task force; directing such
task force to study, evaluate and recommend improvements for vehicle
services provided by state agencies or entities on behalf of the state;
providing certain limitations on the expenditure of county treasurer
motor vehicle fee funds; authorizing county treasurers to charge certain
increased fees for vehicle registration transactions; amending K.S.A. 8145d and K.S.A. 2025 Supp. 8-145 and repealing the existing sections.
Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Kansas:
New Section 1. (a) There is hereby established the vehicle services
modernization task force. The task force shall consist of:
(1) The following 11 voting members:
(A) The chairperson of the senate committee on transportation or the
chairperson's designee;
(B) the chairperson of the house of representatives committee on
transportation or the chairperson's designee;
(C) the ranking minority member of the senate committee on
transportation or the ranking member's designee;
(D) the ranking minority member of the house of representatives
committee on transportation or the ranking member's designee;
(E) one member of the senate appointed by the president of the
senate;
(F) one member of the senate appointed by the majority leader of the
senate;
(G) one member of the house of representatives appointed by the
speaker of the house of representatives;
(H) one member of the house of representatives appointed by the
majority leader of the house of representatives;
(I) one member appointed by the Kansas motor carriers association;
(J) one member appointed by the Kansas automobile dealers
association; and
(K) one member who is an employee of the division of vehicles
appointed by the governor; and
(2) the following four nonvoting members:
(A) The director of vehicles;

H Sub for SB 404

(B) one county treasurer from a county with a population under
15,000 people appointed by the Kansas county treasurers association;
(C) one county treasurer from a county with a population between
15,000 and 100,000 people appointed by the Kansas county treasurers
association; and
(D) one county treasurer from a county with a population over
100,000 people appointed by the Kansas county treasurers association.
(b) Members of the task force shall be appointed by September 1,
2026. Any vacancy in the membership of the task force shall be filled by
appointment in the same manner prescribed by this section for the original
appointment.
(c) The chairperson of the senate committee on transportation or the
chairperson's designee and the chairperson of the house of representatives
committee on transportation or the chairperson's designee shall serve as
co-chairpersons of the task force.
(d) (1) Meetings of the task force shall be held in Topeka. The task
force may meet at any time upon call of either co-chairperson of the task
force. The first meeting of the task force shall be held on or before
December 15, 2026.
(2) A majority of voting members shall constitute a quorum of the
task force. All actions of the task force may be taken by a majority of
members present when there is a quorum.
(3) Members of the task force shall not receive compensation, except
that members of the legislature attending task force meetings shall be paid
compensation, travel expenses and subsistence expenses or allowances as
provided in K.S.A. 75-3212, and amendments thereto.
(4) The staff of the office of revisor of statutes, the legislative
research department and the division of legislative administrative services
shall provide such assistance as may be requested by the task force.
(e) The vehicle services modernization task force shall:
(1) Evaluate vehicle services related to vehicle registrations and
titling provided by the division of vehicles, county treasurers and
contractors of the division of vehicles;
(2) make recommendations for methods to modernize such vehicle
services, including improvements to fee structures and payments,
procedures for such services and the technology needed to administer such
services;
(3) make recommendations for any statutory or regulatory changes
necessary for implementation of such modernization methods; and
(4) study, evaluate or make any other recommendations related to
vehicle services provided by state agencies or other entities on behalf of
the state.
(f) The task force shall prepare and submit a report on or before

H Sub for SB 404

January 10, 2028, to the senate committee on transportation and the house
of representatives committee on transportation concerning the findings and
recommendations of the task force pursuant to subsection (e).
(g) The provisions of this section shall expire on January 31, 2028.
Sec. 2. K.S.A. 2025 Supp. 8-145 is hereby amended to read as
follows: 8-145. (a) All registration and certificates of title fees shall be
paid to the division of vehicles, a contractor of the division or the county
treasurer of the county in which the applicant for registration resides or has
an office or principal place of business within this state. The division,
contractor or the county treasurer shall issue a receipt to the applicant for
such fees paid.
(b) (1) The county treasurer, division or contractor shall deposit $.75
out of each license application, $.75 out of each application for transfer of
license plate and $2 out of each application for a certificate of title,
collected under this act, in a special fund, which fund is hereby
appropriated for the use of the county treasurer, division or contractor in
paying for necessary help and expenses incidental to the administration of
duties in accordance with the provisions of this law. The county treasurer
shall receive extra compensation for the services performed in
administering the provisions of this act, which compensation shall be in
addition to any other compensation provided by any other law, except that
the county treasurer shall receive as additional compensation for
administering the motor vehicle title and registration laws and fees, a sum
computed as follows: The county treasurer, during the month of December,
shall determine the amount to be retained for extra compensation not to
exceed the following amounts each year for calendar year 2006 or any
calendar year thereafter: The sum of $110 per hundred registrations for the
first 5,000 registrations; the sum of $90 per hundred registrations for the
second 5,000 registrations; the sum of $5 per hundred for the third 5,000
registrations; and the sum of $2 per hundred registrations for all
registrations thereafter. In no event, however, shall any county treasurer be
entitled to receive more than $15,000 additional annual compensation.
(2) If more than one person shall hold the office of county treasurer
during any one calendar year, such compensation shall be prorated among
such persons in proportion to the number of weeks served. The total
amount of compensation paid the treasurer together with the amounts
expended in paying for other necessary help and expenses incidental to the
administration of the duties of the county treasurer in accordance with the
provisions of this act, shall not exceed the amount deposited in such
special fund. Any balance remaining in such fund at the close of any
calendar year shall be withdrawn and credited to the general fund of the
county prior to June 1 of the following calendar year.
(3) The special fund created for county treasurers pursuant to this

H Sub for SB 404

subsection shall be expended in accordance with any policies related to
expenditures for personnel or pay plans and other budget-related policies
for the operation of the county treasurer's office approved by the board of
county commissioners.
(c) The county treasurer, division or contractor shall remit the
remainder of all such fees collected, together with the original copy of all
applications, to the secretary of revenue. The secretary of revenue shall
remit all such fees remitted to the state treasurer in accordance with the
provisions of K.S.A. 75-4215, and amendments thereto. Upon receipt of
each such remittance, the state treasurer shall deposit the entire amount in
the state treasury to the credit of the state highway fund, except as
provided in subsection (d).
(d) (1) Three dollars and fifty cents of each certificate of title fee
collected and remitted to the secretary of revenue, shall be remitted to the
state treasurer who shall credit such $3.50 to the Kansas highway patrol
motor vehicle fund. Three dollars of each certificate of title fee collected
and remitted to the secretary of revenue, shall be remitted to the state
treasurer who shall credit such $3 to the VIPS/CAMA technology
hardware fund.
(2) For repossessed vehicles, $3 of each certificate of title fee
collected shall be retained by the contractor or county treasurer who
processed the application.
(3) Three dollars and fifty cents of each reassignment form fee
collected and remitted to the secretary of revenue, shall be remitted to the
state treasurer who shall credit such $3.50 to the Kansas highway patrol
motor vehicle fund. Three dollars of each reassignment form fee collected
and remitted to the secretary of revenue, shall be remitted to the state
treasurer who shall credit such $3 to the VIPS/CAMA technology
hardware fund.
(4) Four dollars of each division of vehicles modernization surcharge
collected and remitted to the secretary of revenue, shall be remitted to the
state treasurer who shall credit such $4 to the state highway fund.
(5) Two dollars of each Kansas highway patrol staffing and training
surcharge collected and remitted to the secretary of revenue, shall be
remitted to the state treasurer who shall credit such $2 to the Kansas
highway patrol staffing and training fund.
(6) One dollar and twenty-five cents of each surcharge collected and
remitted to the secretary of revenue pursuant to K.S.A. 8-1,177, and
amendments thereto, shall be remitted to the state treasurer who shall
credit such $1.25 to the state general fund.
(7) Fees collected in K.S.A. 8-135 and 8-145, and amendments
thereto, that are collected by the division for commercial motor vehicles or
vehicles that are part of a commercial fleet, shall be remitted to the state

H Sub for SB 404

treasurer, who shall credit such amounts to the commercial vehicle
administrative fund.
(8) Fees collected in K.S.A. 8-135 and 8-145, and amendments
thereto, that are collected by the division for vehicles that are part of a fleet
rental pursuant to K.S.A. 8-1,189, and amendments thereto, shall be
remitted to the state treasurer, who shall credit such amounts to the fleet
rental vehicle administration fund.
(9) Fees collected in K.S.A. 8-143, and amendments thereto, for those
motorcycles that are all-electric motorcycles pursuant to K.S.A. 8-143(a)
(3), and amendments thereto, for those motor vehicles that are electric
hybrid vehicles pursuant to K.S.A. 8-143(a)(4)(C), and amendments
thereto, for those motor vehicles that are plug-in electric hybrid vehicles
pursuant to K.S.A. 8-143(a)(4)(D), and amendments thereto, for those
motor vehicles that are all-electric vehicles pursuant to K.S.A. 8-143(a)(4)
(E), and amendments thereto, and for those truck or truck tractors that are
all-electric, an electric hybrid or a plug-in electric hybrid with a gross
weight of 12,000 pounds or less pursuant to K.S.A. 8-143(b)(1), and
amendments thereto, shall be remitted to the state treasurer who shall
credit to the state highway fund amounts specified in K.S.A. 79-34,142,
and amendments thereto, and amounts specified in K.S.A. 79-34,142, and
amendments thereto, to the special city and county highway fund to be
apportioned and distributed in the manner provided in K.S.A. 79-3425c,
and amendments thereto.
Sec. 3. K.S.A. 8-145d is hereby amended to read as follows: 8-145d.
(a) (1) In addition to the annual vehicle registration fees prescribed by
K.S.A. 8-143, 8-143b, 8-143c, 8-143g, 8-143h, 8-143i, 8-143l, 8-167, 8172, 8-195, 8-1,103 and 8-1,108, and amendments thereto, and K.S.A. 8143l, and amendments thereto, any applicant for vehicle registration or
renewal thereof for registration shall pay a service fee in the amount of $5
to the county treasurer, the division of vehicles or a contractor of the
division at the time of making such application.
(2) (A) In addition to such service fee, the county treasurer may
charge any applicant for vehicle registration or renewal thereof for
registration, a registration transaction fee as follows: (1) In an amount not
to exceed $5 per vehicle registration or renewal thereof for registration,
when such application is made at a registration facility in a county with
multiple vehicle registration facilities as established by the county
treasurer; and (2) in an amount not to exceed $2.50 per vehicle registration
or renewal thereof for registration, when such application is made at a
registration facility in a county with a single vehicle registration facility as
established by the county treasurer in an amount of not to exceed $5.
(B) From January 1, 2027, through December 31, 2029, upon
recommendation of a county treasurer and subject to approval by the

H Sub for SB 404

board of county commissioners, such transaction fee provided by
subparagraph (A) may be increased to an amount greater than $5 but not
more than $10. Any recommendation by a county treasurer for an
increased transaction fee shall be approved, rejected or modified by the
board of county commissioners on or before October 1 of the year before
such increased transaction fee shall take effect. All increases in
transaction fees approved by the board of county commissioners pursuant
to this subsection shall take effect on January 1 and remain in effect for
the entire calendar year. The provisions of this subparagraph shall expire
on January 1, 2030.
(C) On and after January 1, 2030, such transaction fee shall not
exceed $5 as provided in subparagraph (A).
(b) The county treasurer, division or contractor shall deposit all
amounts received under this section in the special fund created pursuant to
K.S.A. 8-145, and amendments thereto, and such amounts shall be used by
the county treasurer, division or contractor for all purposes for which such
fund has been appropriated by law, and such additional amounts are
hereby appropriated as other amounts deposited in such fund.
Sec. 4. K.S.A. 8-145d and K.S.A. 2025 Supp. 8-145 are hereby
repealed.
Sec. 5. This act shall take effect and be in force from and after its
publication in the statute book.
