SECOND REGULAR SESSION
[TRULY AGREED TO AND FINALLY PASSED]

SENATE BILL NO. 1408
103RD GENERAL ASSEMBLY
5907S.01T

AN ACT
To repeal section 304.010, RSMo, and to enact in lieu thereof one new section relating to the speed
limit on certain roads of this state, with penalty provisions.
Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

Section A.

Section 304.010, RSMo, is repealed and one new

section enacted in lieu thereof, to be known as section 304.010,

to read as follows:

304.010.

1. As used in this section, the following

terms mean:

(1) "Expressway", a divided highway of at least ten

miles in length with four or more lanes which is not part of

the federal interstate system of highways which has

crossovers or accesses from streets, roads or other highways

at the same grade level as such divided highway;

(2) "Freeway", a limited access divided highway of at

least ten miles in length with four or more lanes which is

not part of the federal interstate system of highways which

does not have any crossovers or accesses from streets, roads

or other highways at the same grade level as such divided

highway within such ten miles of divided highway;

(3) "Rural interstate", that part of the federal

interstate highway system that is not located in an urban

area;

EXPLANATION-Matter enclosed in bold-faced brackets [thus] in this bill is not enacted
and is intended to be omitted in the law.

(4) "Urbanized area", an area of fifty thousand

population at a density at or greater than one thousand

persons per square mile.

2. Except as otherwise provided in this section, the

uniform maximum speed limits are and no vehicle shall be

operated in excess of the speed limits established pursuant

to this section:

(1) Upon the rural interstates and freeways of this
state, [seventy] seventy-five miles per hour;
(2) Upon the rural expressways of this state, sixtyfive miles per hour;
(3) Upon the interstate highways, freeways or

expressways within the urbanized areas of this state, sixty

miles per hour;

(4) All other roads and highways in this state not

located in an urbanized area and not provided for in

subdivisions (1) to (3) of this subsection, sixty miles per

hour;

(5) All other roads provided for in subdivision (4) of

this subsection shall not include any state two-lane road

which is identified by letter.

not exceed fifty-five miles per hour unless set at a higher

speed as established by the department of transportation,

except that no speed limit shall be set higher than sixty

miles per hour;

Such lettered roads shall

(6) For the purposes of enforcing the speed limit laws

of this state, it is a rebuttable presumption that the

posted speed limit is the legal speed limit.

3. On any state road or highway where the speed limit

is not set pursuant to a local ordinance, the highways and

transportation commission may set a speed limit higher or

lower than the uniform maximum speed limit provided in

subsection 2 of this section, if a higher or lower speed

limit is recommended by the department of transportation.

The department of public safety, where it believes for

safety reasons, or to expedite the flow of traffic a higher

or lower speed limit is warranted, may request the

department of transportation to raise or lower such speed

limit, except that no speed limit shall be set higher than

[seventy] seventy-five miles per hour.

4. Notwithstanding the provisions of section 304.120

or any other provision of law to the contrary, cities, towns

and villages may regulate the speed of vehicles on state

roads and highways within such cities', towns' or villages'

corporate limits by ordinance with the approval of the state

highways and transportation commission.

speed in cities, towns or villages shall be designed to

expedite the flow of traffic on such state roads and

highways to the extent consistent with public safety.

commission may declare any ordinance void if it finds that

such ordinance is:

Any reduction of

The

(1) Not primarily designed to expedite traffic flow;
and
(2) Primarily designed to produce revenue for the

city, town or village which enacted such ordinance.

If an ordinance is declared void, the city, town or village

shall have any future proposed ordinance approved by the

highways and transportation commission before such ordinance

may take effect.

5. The county commission of any county of the second,

third or fourth classification may set the speed limit or

the weight limit or both the speed limit and the weight

limit on roads or bridges on any county, township or road

district road in the county and, with the approval of the

state highways and transportation commission, on any state

road or highway not within the limits of any incorporated

city, town or village, lower than the uniform maximum speed

limit as provided in subsection 2 of this section where the

condition of the road or the nature of the area requires a

lower speed. The maximum speed limit set by the county

commission of any county of the second, third, or fourth

classification for any road under the commission's

jurisdiction shall not exceed fifty-five miles per hour if

such road is properly marked by signs indicating such speed

limit. If the county commission does not mark the roads

with signs indicating the speed limit, the speed limit shall

be fifty miles per hour.

of any order establishing a speed limit or weight limit on

roads and bridges on a county, township or road district

road in the county to the chief engineer of the state

department of transportation, the superintendent of the

state highway patrol and to any township or road district

maintaining roads in the county.

properly marked by signs indicating the speed limits and

weight limits set by the county commission, the speed limits

and weight limits shall be of the same effect as the speed

limits provided for in subsection 1 of this section and

shall be enforced by the state highway patrol and the county

sheriff as if such speed limits and weight limits were

established by state law.

The commission shall send copies

After the roads have been

6. The county commission of any county of the second,

third, or fourth classification may by ordinance set a

countywide speed limit on roads within unincorporated areas

of any county, township, or road district in the county and

may establish reasonable speed regulations for motor

vehicles within the limit of such county.

not a resident of such county and who has not been within

the limits thereof for a continuous period of more than

forty-eight hours shall be convicted of a violation of such

ordinances, unless it is shown by competent evidence that

there was posted at the place where the boundary of such

county road enters the county a sign displaying in black

letters not less than four inches high and one inch wide on

a white background the speed fixed by such county so that

such signs may be clearly seen by operators and drivers from

their vehicles upon entering such county.

shall send copies of any order establishing a countywide

speed limit on a county, township, or road district road in

the county to the chief engineer of the Missouri department

of transportation, the superintendent of the state highway

patrol, and to any township or road district maintaining

roads in the county.

roads entering the county have been properly marked by signs

indicating the speed limits set by the county commission,

the speed limits shall be of the same effect as the speed

limits provided for in subsection 1 of this section and

shall be enforced by the state highway patrol and the county

sheriff as if such speed limits were established by state

law.

No person who is

The commission

After the boundaries of the county

7. All road signs indicating speed limits or weight

limits shall be uniform in size, shape, lettering and

coloring and shall conform to standards established by the

department of transportation.

8. The provisions of this section shall not be

construed to alter any speed limit set below fifty-five

miles per hour by any ordinance of any county, city, town or

village of the state adopted before March 13, 1996.

9. The speed limits established pursuant to this

section shall not apply to the operation of any emergency

vehicle as defined in section 304.022.

10. A violation of the provisions of this section

shall not be construed to relieve the parties in any civil

action on any claim or counterclaim from the burden of

proving negligence or contributory negligence as the

proximate cause of any accident or as the defense to a

negligence action.

11. Any person violating the provisions of this

section is guilty of a class C misdemeanor, unless such

person was exceeding the posted speed limit by twenty miles

per hour or more then it is a class B misdemeanor.

✓
