HB128

I3PI4Z6-1

By Representatives Lands, DuBose, Hall, Drummond, Clarke,

Collins, McClammy, Fidler, Hollis

RFD: Boards, Agencies and Commissions

First Read: 13-Jan-26

PFD: 07-Jan-26

Page 0

I3PI4Z6-1 12/01/2025 JWB (L)lg 2025-2344

SYNOPSIS:

Existing law authorizes the State Board of

Midwifery to administer the practice of midwifery.

This bill would authorize the board to accept
gifts and grants.

This bill would also make technical revisions to
update the existing code language to current style.

A BILL

TO BE ENTITLED

AN ACT

Relating to midwifery; to amend Section 34-19-12, as

last amended by Act 2025-166, 2025 Regular Session, and

Sections 34-19-14 and 34-19-16, Code of Alabama 1975, to

provide further for the powers of the State Board of Midwifery

and the practice of midwifery.

BE IT ENACTED BY THE LEGISLATURE OF ALABAMA:

Section 1. Section 34-19-12, as last amended by Act

2025-166, 2025 Regular Session, and Sections 34-19-14 and

34-19-16, Code of Alabama 1975, are amended to read as

follows:

"§34-19-12

(a) There is created and established a State Board of
Page 1

Midwifery to implement and administer this chapter.
(b) The board shall pay all of its expenses from its

own funds and no expenses shall be borne by the State of

Alabama from the State General Fund.

(c) The board shall consist of seven members appointed

by the Governor and subject to confirmation by the Senate,

from a list of qualified individuals nominated by the

designated organization. Each list shall contain the names of

at least two individuals for each position to be filled.

(d) The members of the board shall be appointed for

staggered initial terms and subsequent terms shall be for a

minimum of four years or until his or her successor has been

appointed and qualified.

(e) The board shall meet at least twice each year,

conducting its business in person or by electronic methods.

(f) The board shall elect one of its members to serve

as chair for a two-year term. The chair may not serve

consecutive terms.

(g) The composition of the board shall be as follows:

(1) Four members shall hold a valid certified

professional midwife credential from the North American

Registry of Midwives. These members shall be appointed from a

list of names submitted by the Alabama Birth CoalitionMidwives

Alliance or its successor professional midwifery organization.

One of these members shall be appointed to an initial term of

four years, one to a term of three years, and two to a term of

two years.

(2) One member shall be a nurse practitioner. This
Page 2

member shall be appointed to an initial term of four years.
(3) One member shall be a licensed certified nurse

midwife or registered nurse licensed under Article 5 of

Chapter 21. This member shall be appointed from a list

submitted by the Alabama Board of Nursing. This member shall

be appointed to an initial term of three years.

(4) One member shall have used midwifery services in

the state. This member shall be appointed from a list of names

submitted by the Alabama Birth Coalition. This member shall be

appointed to an initial term of three years.

(h) When choosing individuals to be considered by the

Governor for appointment to the board, the nominating

authorities shall strive to assure membership is inclusive and

reflects the racial, gender, geographic, urban, rural, and

economic diversity of the state. Commencing on June 1, 2025,

as the terms of the members serving on the board expire, the

membership of the board shall be appointed so that one member

resides in and is appointed from each congressional district

in this state.

(i) All members of the board shall be immune from

individual civil liability while acting within the scope of

their duties as board members, unless conduct is unreasonable.

(j) Vacancies shall be filled by the Governor and

confirmed by the Senate in the same manner as other

appointments are made. In the case of a vacancy, the new

appointee shall serve for the remainder of the unexpired term.

(k) Members of the board shall serve without
compensation but shall be allowed travel and per diem expenses
Page 3

at the same rate paid to state employees, to be paid from the

funds collected for the administration of this chapter, as

funds are available.

(l) The board may employ, subject to the State Merit

System, investigators, inspectors, attorneys, and any other

agents, employees, and assistants as may from time to time be

necessary, and may use any other means necessary to enforce

this chapter.

(m) Pursuant to any terms and conditions adopted by the

board by official resolution, the board may accept gifts and

grants.

(m)(n)(1) A licensed midwife shall file annually with

the board the following information on a form prepared by the

board and accessible on its website:

a. The total number of births attended by the licensed

midwife in the previous year, including births where the

licensed midwife was assisting another licensed midwife.

b. The number of maternal transfers to a health care

facility from births attended by the licensed midwife,

including instances where the licensed midwife was assisting

another licensed midwife.

c. The number of infant transfers to a health care

facility from births attended by the licensed midwife,

including instances where the licensed midwife was assisting

another licensed midwife.

d. The total number of maternal deaths from births

attended by the licensed midwife, including instances where

the licensed midwife was assisting another licensed midwife.
Page 4

e. The total number of infant deaths from births

attended by the licensed midwife, including instances where

the licensed midwife was assisting another licensed midwife.

(2) The board shall make the information collected

under this subsection available to the public in accordance

with federal law.

(n)(o) The board shall be subject to the Alabama Sunset

Law, Chapter 20, Title 41, as an enumerated agency as provided

in Section 41-20-3, and shall have a termination date of

October 1, 2021, and every four years thereafter, unless

continued pursuant to the Alabama Sunset Law."

"§34-19-14

(a) The board shall do all of the following consistent

with this chapter:
(1) Approve, renew, suspend, or revoke licenses for the
practice of midwifery.
(2) Investigate and conduct hearings regarding

complaints against a licensed midwife in order to determine if

disciplinary action is warranted.

(3) Establish reasonable licensure fees, including, but

not limited to, initial application, renewal, and

reinstatement fees.

(4) Develop standardized forms, including, but not

limited to, a midwife disclosure form, informed consent form,

emergency care form, and applications for licensure and

renewal.

(5) Impose administrative fines, not to exceed one
thousand dollars ($1,000) per violation, for violating this
Page 5

chapter, a board rule, or a condition of a license.

(6) Establish levels of professional liability

insurance that must be maintained by a licensed midwife at a

limit of no less than one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000)

per occurrence and three hundred thousand dollars ($300,000)

aggregate.

(b)(1) The board shall adopt rules pursuant to the

Administrative Procedure Act to implement this chapter in a

manner consistent with the most current North American

Registry of Midwives Job Analysis and with essential documents

developed and published by the Midwives Alliance of North

America. The rules shall include, but not be limited to,

provision for all of the following:

a. Licensing procedures and requirements.

b. Minimum initial and continuing education

requirements for licensure.
c. Standards by which a licensed midwife shall conduct
risk assessment.

d. Standards for professional conduct.

e. A standard procedure for investigating complaints.

f. Requirements for clinical internships for

individuals seeking midwifery training.

(2) The rules shall ensure independent practice.

(c) A licensed midwife may not administer or perform

any of the following obstetric procedures which are outside of

the scope of the licensed practice of midwifery:

(1) An epidural, spinal, or caudal anesthetic.

(2) Any type of narcotic analgesia.
Page 6

(3) Forceps or a vacuum extractor-assisted delivery.

(4) Abortion.

(5) Cesarean section or any surgery or surgical

deliverdelivery except minimal episiotomies.

(6) Pharmacological induction or augmentation of labor

or artificial rupture of membranes prior to the onset of

labor.

(7) Except for the administration of local anesthetic,
administration of an anesthetic.
(8) Administration of any prescription medication in a

manner that violates the Alabama Uniform Controlled

SubstanceSubstances Act.

(9) Vaginal birth after a cesarean.

(d) A licensed midwife may not perform either of the

following:

(1) Delivery of a diagnosed multiple pregnancy.

(2) Delivery of a baby whose position is diagnosed as

non-cephalic at the onset of labor."

"§34-19-16

(a) A licensed midwife may provide midwifery care in

the setting of the client's choice, except a hospital.
(b) A licensed midwife shall ensure that the client has

signed a midwife disclosure form provided by the board

indicating receipt of a written statement that includes all of

the following information:

(1) A description of the licensed midwife's education,
training, and experience in midwifery.
(2) Antepartum, intrapartum, and postpartum conditions
Page 7

requiring medical referral, transfer of care, and transport to

a hospital.

(3) A plan for medical referral, transfer of care, and

transport of the client or newborn or both when indicated by

specific antepartum, intrapartum, or postpartum conditions.

(4) Instructions for filing a complaint against a
licensed midwife.
(5) A statement that the licensed midwife must comply

with the federal Health Insurance Portability and

Accountability Act.

(6) The status of a licensed midwife's professional
liability insurance coverage.
(7) References to current evidence regarding the safety

of midwifery care in out-of-hospital settings, including a

copy of the most recent statement by the American Congress of

Obstetricians and Gynecologists on home birth.

(c) A licensed midwife shall ensure that the client has
signed an informed consent form provided by the board.

(d) For screening purposes only, a licensed midwife may

order routine antepartum and postpartum laboratory analyses to

be performed by a licensed laboratory.

(e) After a client has secured the services of a

licensed midwife, the licensed midwife shall document an

emergency care plan on a form provided by the board.

(f) A licensed midwife shall determine the progress of

labor and, when birth is imminent, shall be available until

delivery is accomplished.

(g) A licensed midwife shall remain with the client
Page 8

during the postpartalpostpartum period until the conditions of

the client and newborn are stabilized.

(h) A licensed midwife shall instruct the client

regarding the requirements of the administration of eye

ointment ordered by the Alabama Department of Public Health

pursuant to Section 22-20-2.

(i) A licensed midwife shall instruct the client

regarding the requirements of administration of newborn health

screening ordered by the Alabama Department of Public Health

pursuant to Section 22-20-3.

(j) A licensed midwife shall file a birth certificate

for each birth in accordance with the requirements of Section

22-9A-7.

(k) A licensed midwife shall collect clinical data

under the Midwives Alliance of North America Statistics

Project for each client who initiates care and shall submit a

copy of the clinical data collected for each consenting client

to the board upon request.

(l)(k) A licensed midwife shall report to the Alabama

Department of Public Health pursuant to Chapter 11A, of Title

22, and any other law that requires hospitals or physicians to

report to the Alabama Department of Public Health.

(m)(l) A licensed midwife shall provide all information

required to be provided to new mothers pursuant to Section

22-20-3.1, and all information required to be provided to new

mothers before discharge by hospitals, as defined in Section

22-21-20.

(n)(m) A licensed midwife shall order those tests,
Page 9

provided in Section 22-20-3 and any rule adopted by the State

Board of Health pursuant to that section relating to the

newborn screening program, to all neonates in his or her care.

(o)(n) A licensed midwife may order and administer a
urinalysis or blood glucose test as indicated."
Section 2. This act shall become effective on October
1, 2026.

Page 10
