Florida Senate - 2026

By Senator Osgood

2026514__
A bill to be entitled

An act relating to the Doula Support for Healthy

Births pilot program; creating s. 383.295, F.S.;

defining terms; establishing the pilot program in

Broward, Miami-Dade, and Palm Beach Counties for a

specified purpose; providing the purpose of the pilot

program; requiring the Department of Health, in

collaboration with its maternal and child health

section, to implement and oversee the pilot program;

specifying the duration of the pilot program, subject

to funding; requiring the pilot program to target

specified populations for enrollment; specifying

services that must be provided under the pilot

program; requiring the department to collaborate with

specified entities to integrate doula services into

existing maternal health programs and facilitate

outreach and service delivery; authorizing the

department to integrate doula services into existing

maternal and child health programs as an expansion of

the pilot program, subject to certain requirements;

providing for funding of the pilot program; creating

the Doula Certification Task Force within the

department for a specified purpose; requiring the

department to oversee and provide administrative

support to the task force; providing for membership

and meetings of the task force; specifying duties of

the task force; requiring the task force to submit a

final report of its findings and recommendations to

the Governor and the Legislature by a specified date;
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

2026514__

providing for expiration of the task force; providing

an effective date.

WHEREAS, preterm birth is defined as a live birth before 37

completed weeks of gestation and is associated with increased

morbidities or ailments, such as cerebral palsy, breathing

difficulties, feeding problems, developmental delay, and vision

and hearing problems, and

WHEREAS, preterm labor occurs when regular contractions

cause the cervix to open between 20 and 37 weeks of gestation,

which can result in a baby being born before 37 weeks of

gestation, and the earlier the delivery, the greater the health

risks for the baby, requiring special care in a neonatal

intensive care unit and potentially causing long-term mental and

physical health concerns, and

WHEREAS, Florida’s preterm birth rate has risen annually

since 2014 to its current average rate of 10.9 percent, higher

than the national average of 10.5 percent, and

WHEREAS, Florida ranks among the highest in the nation for

infant mortality, with a rate of 5.9 deaths per 1,000 births,

higher than the national average of 5.4 deaths per 1,000 births,

and

WHEREAS, Florida also has one of the highest cesarean

delivery rates in the nation at 37.4 percent, compared to the

national average of 31.8 percent, with cesarean delivery being

associated with increased risks to infants, including

respiratory distress, infection, and long-term health

complications, and

WHEREAS, maternal mortality is defined as the annual number
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

2026514__

of female deaths from any cause related to or aggravated by

pregnancy or its management, excluding accidental or incidental

causes, during pregnancy and childbirth or within 42 days after

termination of a pregnancy, irrespective of the duration and

site of the pregnancy, and

WHEREAS, Florida ranks 17th in the nation with a maternal

mortality rate of 26.3 deaths per 100,000 births, compared to a

national rate of 23.2 deaths per 100,000 births, and

WHEREAS, Broward County has a maternal mortality rate of

24.8 deaths per 100,000 live births, and an infant mortality

rate of 5 deaths per 1,000 live births, and

WHEREAS, Miami-Dade County has a maternal mortality rate of

20.3 deaths per 100,000 live births, and an infant mortality

rate of 4.8 deaths per 1,000 live births, and

WHEREAS, Palm Beach County has a maternal mortality rate of

33.2 deaths per 100,000 live births, and an infant mortality

rate of 5.4 deaths per 1,000 live births, and

WHEREAS, continued perinatal support, including the

services provided by trained doulas, is associated with reduced

rates of cesarean delivery and improved birth outcomes, and

WHEREAS, Florida has ongoing challenges related to child

safety and welfare, with statistics showing disparities in

health and safety outcomes for children across racial and

socioeconomic groups, and

WHEREAS, doula care is the continuous, one-to-one

emotional, informational, and physical support provided by a

trained nonmedical professional to pregnant women and their

families during pregnancy, labor, and the postpartum period, and

WHEREAS, while doulas do not perform medical tasks, they
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

2026514__

provide an array of educational and support services throughout

the birthing process to ensure that the mother has a positive

and empowering experience, including, but not limited to,

educational resources and information about pregnancy,

childbirth, and postpartum care; assistance in creating a birth

plan; continuous emotional support during labor and delivery;

assistance with breathing techniques, relaxation, and

positioning during labor; massage and counterpressure measures;

facilitation of communication with medical staff; advocacy in

and navigation of the medical setting; and postpartum support

with newborn care and feeding, and

WHEREAS, evidence-based support provided by trained doulas

has been shown to enhance birth experiences, reduce cesarean

deliveries, and improve overall health outcomes for mothers and

infants, and

WHEREAS, the state has a compelling interest in improving

maternal and infant outcomes through increased access to high-

quality doula services, NOW, THEREFORE,

Be It Enacted by the Legislature of the State of Florida:

Section 1.

Section 383.295, Florida Statutes, is created to

read:

383.295 Doulas.—

(1) DEFINITIONS.—As used in this section, the term:

(a)

“Department” means the Department of Health.

(b)

“Doula” means a nonmedical professional who provides

health education, advocacy, and physical, emotional, and

nonmedical support for pregnant and postpartum women before,
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

2026514__

during, and after childbirth, including support during

miscarriage and stillbirth. Doulas are not clinical providers

and are not licensed.

(c)

“Doula services” means the provision of physical,

emotional, and informational support by a nonmedical

professional to a pregnant woman during the prenatal,

intrapartum, and postpartum periods. Activities may include

childbirth education, labor support, postpartum recovery

support, assistance with infant care, lactation support, and

connection to community resources.

(d)

“Evidence-based” means a process in which decisions are

made and actions or activities are carried out, based on the

best evidence available, with the goal of removing subjective

opinion, unfounded beliefs, or bias from decisions and actions.

Such evidence may include practitioner experience and expertise

as well as feedback from other practitioners and beneficiaries.

(2) PILOT PROGRAM ESTABLISHED.—

(a) The Doula Support for Healthy Births pilot program is

established in Broward, Miami-Dade, and Palm Beach Counties to

integrate doula services into existing maternal health

initiatives, targeting pregnant and postpartum women who have

overcome or are overcoming substance use disorders.

(b) The purpose of the pilot program is to improve birth

outcomes by decreasing preterm birth rates and cesarean

deliveries, enhancing access to care, and supporting maternal

well-being throughout the pregnancy, labor, and postpartum

periods using evidence-based methods.

(c) The Department of Health, through its maternal and

child health section, shall implement and oversee the pilot
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

2026514__

program.

(3) PROGRAM STRUCTURE.—

(a) The pilot program may operate for 12 to 24 months,

subject to funding.
(b) The pilot program shall target the enrollment of

pregnant and postpartum women who have overcome or are

overcoming substance use disorders.

(c) The following support services must be offered under
the pilot program:
1. Prenatal support, such as educational resources,
personalized birth plans, and emotional support.
2. Labor support, such as continuous emotional support,
comfort measures, and communication facilitation.
3. Postpartum support, such as assistance with newborn
care, postpartum resources, and household tasks.

4. Advocacy support, such as assistance with preferences

and needs within medical settings and health care navigation.

5.

Comprehensive emotional support during the pregnancy and

postpartum periods.

(4) COLLABORATION; INTEGRATION.—

(a) The department shall collaborate with:

1. Health care providers, community organizations,

community coalitions, and advocacy groups to integrate doulas

and doula services into existing maternal health programs,

ensuring that such doulas are trained and meet all of the

following criteria:

a.

Demonstrate a strong understanding of the reproductive

system, labor process, and postpartum recovery.
b.

Are proficient in hands-on techniques, such as massage,

CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

2026514__

counterpressure, breathing exercises, and nonmedicated pain

management.

c. Support a client’s birth plan, communicate effectively
with medical staff, and advocate for informed consent.
d. Provide guidance on breastfeeding, basic newborn care,

and both the physical and emotional aspects of postpartum

recovery.

e. Use active listening, clear communication, and conflict

resolution skills in interactions with clients and health care

providers.

f. Understand common medical complications and provide

emotional and physical support to clients in challenging

situations.

g. Uphold professionalism, ethical decisionmaking, and
legal responsibilities in doula practice.
2. Local WIC programs, hospitals, birth centers, and

community health centers to facilitate outreach and service

delivery.

(b) The department may integrate doula services into

existing maternal and child health programs as an expansion of

the pilot program, focusing on pregnant and postpartum women who

have overcome or are overcoming substance use disorders. Any

such expansion of the pilot program must include annual

reporting requirements for the department to evaluate

effectiveness, equity, and quality of integrating doula services

into the existing maternal and child health programs.

(5)

FUNDING.—The pilot program shall be funded using

appropriations for the Closing the Gap grant program established

under ss. 381.7351-381.7356. The department shall coordinate
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

2026514__

with its Division of Community Health Promotion and Office of

Minority Health and Health Equity to seek additional federal

funds to support implementation.

Section 2.

Doula Certification Task Force.—

(1) ESTABLISHMENT.—There is created within the Department

of Health the Doula Certification Task Force, a task force as

defined in s. 20.03(5), Florida Statutes, for the purpose of

reviewing the scope of doula services and ensuring competency,

quality, and consistency in the delivery of doula services to

pregnant and postpartum women.

(2) OVERSIGHT.—The Department of Health shall oversee and
provide administrative support to the task force.

(3) MEMBERSHIP; MEETINGS.—

(a) The task force shall be composed of nine members. Three

members shall be appointed by the Governor, three members shall

be appointed by the Senate President, and three members shall be

appointed by the Speaker of the House of Representatives. Of the

nine members, two members must be health care practitioners as

defined in s. 456.001, Florida Statutes, experienced in caring

for pregnant or postpartum women, and at least one member must

be a doula or otherwise have experience providing nonmedical

support services to pregnant or postpartum women. A vacancy on

the task force must be filled in the same manner as the original

appointment. The task force shall elect a chair from among its

members.

(b)

The task force shall meet as often as necessary to

complete its work, but at least quarterly, at the call of the

chair. The task force may conduct its meetings through

teleconference or other similar electronic means.
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

2026514__

(4) DUTIES.—The task force shall do all of the following:

(a) Review the scope of practice for doulas in this state,

as well as in other states.
(b) Establish core competencies for the provision of doula
services.
(c) Recommend minimum certification standards for doulas,

which must include, but need not be limited to, all of the

following:

1. Possession of a high school diploma or its equivalent.

2. Completion of a department-approved, evidence-based

training program.

3. A minimum number of supervised practice hours.

4. Completion of a background screening.

5. Education in professional ethics.

(5) REPORT.—By January 1, 2028, the task force shall submit

a final report of its findings and recommendations to the

Governor, the President of the Senate, and the Speaker of the

House of Representatives.

(6)

SUNSET.—The task force shall operate on a temporary

basis in conjunction with the Doula Support for Healthy Births

pilot program established under s. 383.295, Florida Statutes, as

created by this act, and shall expire on October 2, 2029, in

accordance with s. 20.052(8), Florida Statutes.

Section 3.

This act shall take effect upon becoming a law.

CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.
