Session of 2025

HOUSE BILL No. 2305
By Committee on Health and Human Services
Requested by Jeanne Gawdun on behalf of Kansans for Life
2-5

AN ACT concerning abortion; relating to health professions and practices;
requiring that certain abortion complications be reported to the Kansas
department of health and environment.
Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Kansas:
Section 1. (a) As used in this section:
(1) "Abortion complication" means the following physical or
psychological conditions arising from the induction or performance of an
abortion:
(A) Uterine perforation;
(B) cervical laceration;
(C) infection;
(D) vaginal bleeding that qualifies as a grade 2 or higher adverse
event according to the common terminology criteria for adverse events;
(E) pulmonary embolism;
(F) deep vein thrombosis;
(G) failure to terminate the pregnancy;
(H) incomplete abortion or retained tissue;
(I) pelvic inflammatory disease;
(J) missed ectopic pregnancy;
(K) cardiac arrest;
(L) respiratory arrest;
(M) renal failure;
(N) shock;
(O) amniotic fluid embolism;
(P) coma;
(Q) placenta previa in subsequent pregnancies;
(R) pre-term delivery in subsequent pregnancies;
(S) free fluid in the abdomen;
(T) hemolytic reaction due to the administration of ABOincompatible blood or blood products;
(U) hypoglycemia occurring while the patient is being treated at the
hospital or ambulatory outpatient surgical center;
(V) allergic reaction to anesthesia or abortion inducing drugs;
(W) psychological complications, including depression, suicidal

HB 2305

ideation, anxiety, and sleeping disorders;
(X) death; or
(Y) any other adverse event as defined by the criteria provided in the
United States food and drug administration safety information and adverse
events reporting program.
(2) "Healthcare provider" means:
(A) An individual licensed by the state board of healing arts to
practice medicine and surgery;
(B) a "mid-level practitioner" as defined in K.S.A. 65-1626, and
amendments thereto; or
(C) a licensee of the behavioral sciences regulatory board who has
clinical diagnoses within such licensee's scope of practice.
(3) "Patient" means any woman who has been treated for an abortionrelated complication subject to the reporting requirements of this section.
(b) Healthcare providers shall report to the Kansas department of
health and environment each case in which the provider treated a patient
suffering from an abortion complication.
(c) A report required by this section shall be submitted to the Kansas
department of health and environment on a form and in a manner specified
by the department. The department shall develop a process for submission
of a report under this section prior to September 1, 2025.
(d) The report required under this section shall include the following
information concerning the abortion complication:
(1) The date that the patient presented for treatment for the abortion
complication.
(2) the age of the patient;
(3) the race of the patient;
(4) the county and state of the patient's residence;
(5) the type of abortion obtained by the patient;
(6) the date of abortion obtained by the patient;
(7) the name of the facility where the patient obtained the abortion;
(8) whether the patient obtained abortion medication via mail order or
website, and if so, information identifying the source of the medication;
(9) whether the complication was previously managed by the abortion
provider;
(10) the name of the medications taken by the patient as part of the
pharmaceutical abortion regimen, if any;
(11) a list of each diagnosed complication;
(12) a list of each treated complication, with a description of the
treatment provided;
(13) whether the patient's visit to treat the complications was the
original visit or a follow-up visit;
(14) the date of each follow-up visit, if any;

HB 2305

(15) a list of each complication diagnosed at a follow-up visit, if any;
and
(16) a list of each complication treated at a follow-up visit, if any.
(e) On a quarterly basis, the department of health and environment
shall compile a public report summarizing the information collected under
this section. The report shall include statistics for the previous calendar
quarter with updated information for the most recent calendar quarter.
(f) The department of health and environment shall summarize the
aggregate data from the data submitted under this section and submit the
data on or before June 30 of each year to the United States centers for
disease control and prevention for its inclusion in the annual vital statistics
report.
(g) The department of health and environment shall ensure that no
identifying information of a patient is included in the report described in
subsection (f).
(h)
On and after September 1, 2025, each failure to report an
abortion complication as required under this section is a class B nonperson
misdemeanor.
Sec. 2. This act shall take effect and be in force from and after its
publication in the statute book.
