SENATE DOCKET, NO. 1596

FILED ON: 1/16/2025

SENATE . . . . . . . . . . . . . . No. 784
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts
_________________
PRESENTED BY:

Joan B. Lovely
_________________
To the Honorable Senate and House of Representatives of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts in General
Court assembled:
The undersigned legislators and/or citizens respectfully petition for the adoption of the accompanying bill:

An Act promoting and enhancing the sustainability of birth centers and the midwifery workforce.
_______________
PETITION OF:

NAME:
Joan B. Lovely
Susannah M. Whipps
Bruce E. Tarr
Hannah Kane
Joanne M. Comerford
Pavel M. Payano
Manny Cruz
Brendan P. Crighton
Liz Miranda
James B. Eldridge
Sal N. DiDomenico
Michael D. Brady
Jason M. Lewis
Vanna Howard
Rebecca L. Rausch
Patricia D. Jehlen
William J. Driscoll, Jr.
Paul W. Mark

DISTRICT/ADDRESS:
Second Essex
2nd Franklin
First Essex and Middlesex
11th Worcester
Hampshire, Franklin and Worcester
First Essex
7th Essex
Third Essex
Second Suffolk
Middlesex and Worcester
Middlesex and Suffolk
Second Plymouth and Norfolk
Fifth Middlesex
17th Middlesex
Norfolk, Worcester and Middlesex
Second Middlesex
Norfolk, Plymouth and Bristol
Berkshire, Hampden, Franklin and
of 2

2/12/2025
2/26/2025
3/3/2025
3/3/2025
3/17/2025
3/17/2025
3/25/2025
3/27/2025
4/2/2025
4/4/2025
4/4/2025
5/15/2025
6/2/2025
7/9/2025

Michael O. Moore
Patrick M. O'Connor
Robyn K. Kennedy

Hampshire
Second Worcester
First Plymouth and Norfolk
First Worcester

of 2

10/23/2025
11/5/2025
11/6/2025

SENATE DOCKET, NO. 1596

FILED ON: 1/16/2025

SENATE . . . . . . . . . . . . . . No. 784
By Ms. Lovely, a petition (accompanied by bill, Senate, No. 784) of Joan B. Lovely, Susannah
M. Whipps, Bruce E. Tarr, Hannah Kane and others for legislation to promote and enhance the
sustainability of birth centers and the midwifery workforce. Financial Services.

The Commonwealth of Massachusetts
_______________

In the One Hundred and Ninety-Fourth General Court
(2025-2026)
_______________

An Act promoting and enhancing the sustainability of birth centers and the midwifery workforce.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court assembled, and by the authority
of the same, as follows:

SECTION 1. Chapter 10 of the General Laws are hereby amended by inserting after
section 35TTT the following section:-

Section 35UUU. (a) There shall be established and set up on the books of the

commonwealth a separate fund known as the Midwifery Workforce Development Fund. The

fund shall be administered by the secretary of the executive office of health and human services

in consultation with the advisory committee established pursuant to subsection (d); provided, that

the secretary may delegate administration of part or all of the fund to an organization

representing certified professional midwives. There shall be credited to the fund: (i) revenue

from appropriations or other money authorized by the general court and specifically designated

to be credited to the fund; (ii) federal grants and other federal funds designated for maternal

health; (iii) interest earned on such revenues; and (iv) all other funds from public and private

sources credited or transferred into the fund, including gifts, public or private grants, settlements

of 12

and donations. Any unexpended balance in the fund at the end of a fiscal year shall not revert to

the General Fund and shall remain available for expenditure in subsequent fiscal years. No

expenditure made from the fund shall cause the fund to become deficient at any point. Any fiscal

year-end balance in the fund that is subject to appropriation shall not be subject to section 5C of

chapter 29. The fund shall not be subject to appropriation.

(b) Expenditures from the fund shall be used for:

(i) providing assistance to students in education and training programs to qualify them to

become licensed certified professional midwives, including, but not limited to:
(A) program costs, tuition, books and fees related to the cost of education and training for

participants in training and educational programs, including distance learning programs and

including tuition and other costs related to obtaining a midwifery degree or Midwifery Bridge

Certificate;

(B) costs related to obtaining an applicable license, including, but not limited to,
examination and licensing fees;

(C) stipends for program participants; and

(D) stipends for childcare and transportation for program participants;

(ii) a student loan forgiveness program for certified professional midwives and certified

nurse midwives; provided, that the program may require participants to practice in an

underserved area or serve marginalized populations, as defined by the secretary in consultation

with the advisory committee;

of 12

(iii) a grant program to fund local initiatives supporting the development of educational
programs for certified professional midwives;
(iv) retention of practicing midwives, and mental health and psychosocial support for
certified professional midwives and certified nurse midwives; and
(v) with the approval of the advisory committee, other purposes consistent with the goals
of the fund.

(c) Annually, not later than December 1, the secretary of health and human services shall

report on the activities of the fund to the clerks of the house of representatives and the senate and

to the house and senate committees on ways and means and the joint committee on children,

families and persons with disabilities. The report shall include: (i) an accounting of expenditures

made from the fund with a description of the authorized purpose of each expenditure; (ii) an

accounting of amounts credited to the fund; and (iii) any unexpended balance remaining in the

fund. The report may also include analysis and recommendations prepared by the advisory

committee, which may include recommendations for changes to this section. The report shall be

published on the public web site of the executive office of health and human services or the

department of public health.

(d) There shall be an advisory committee to make recommendations concerning the

operation and expenditures of the fund. The advisory committee that shall consist of the

following members: a representative of the Massachusetts chapter of the National Association of

Certified Professional Midwives, who shall serve as chair, a representative of the American

College of Nurse Midwives; a member of the Pregnancy, Infancy and Early Childhood Division

of the Department of Public Health; a representative of the Massachusetts League of Community
of 12

Health Centers; and the following members chosen by the chair: a representative of a midwifery

educational program; a representative of a community college; a representative of an

organization concerned about reproductive justice and health equity; a representative of a safety-

net hospital; and a representative of a free-standing birth center.

SECTION 2. Chapter 32A of the General Laws is hereby amended by inserting after
section 17W the following sections:-

Section 17X. (a) The commission shall ensure that the rate of payment for services

provided to an active or retired employee of the commonwealth who is insured under the group

insurance commission that are rendered by a certified nurse-midwife authorized to engage in the

practice of nurse-midwifery by the board of registration in nursing pursuant to section 80C of

chapter 112 that is within the scope of the certified nurse-midwife's authorization to practice

shall be no less than the payment rate for the same service if performed by a physician,

regardless of the site of services, or length of stay.

(b) The commission shall ensure that the rate of payment for services for services

provided to an active or retired employee of the commonwealth who is insured under the group

insurance that are rendered by a licensed certified professional midwife authorized to engage in

the practice of midwifery by the board of registration in midwifery pursuant to section 110 of

chapter 13 that is within the scope of the licensed certified professional midwife's authorization

to practice shall be no less than the payment rate for the same service if performed by a

physician, regardless of the site of services, or length of stay.

Section 17Y. The commission shall ensure that the rate of payment for services provided

to an active or retired employee of the commonwealth who is insured under the group insurance
of 12

commission that are rendered by or within a licensed freestanding birth center regulated under

section 51M of chapter 111, including newborn care and care provided prior to an intrapartum

transfer to another facility, shall be no less than the payment rate for the same services if

performed at a hospital, regardless of the site of services, or length of stay. Such payment shall

include a reasonable facility fee to be negotiated between the birth center and the commission;

provided, that the facility fee shall be no less than a minimum fee amount determined by the

department of public health in consultation with the center for health information and analysis,

the health policy commission, and operators and prospective operators of birth centers in the

commonwealth.

SECTION 3. The third paragraph of section 10A of chapter 118E of the General Laws, as

inserted by section 40 of chapter 186 of the acts of 2024, is hereby amended by adding the

following sentences:- The payment rate for a service provided by a licensed certified

professional midwife that is within the scope of the licensed certified professional midwife’s

authorization to practice shall be no less than the payment rate for the same service if performed

by a physician, regardless of the site of services. The payment rate for services provided by or

within a licensed freestanding birth center regulated under section 51M of chapter 111, including

newborn care and care provided prior to an intrapartum transfer to another facility, shall be no

less than the payment rate for the same services if performed at a hospital, regardless of site of

services or length of stay. Such payment shall include a reasonable facility fee to be negotiated

between the birth center and the division; provided, that the facility fee shall be no less than a

minimum fee amount determined by the department of public health in consultation with the

center for health information and analysis, the health policy commission, and operators and

prospective operators of birth centers in the commonwealth.
of 12

SECTION 4. Chapter 175 of the General Laws is hereby amended by inserting after
section 47YY the following sections:Section 47ZZ. (a) A policy, contract, agreement, plan or certificate of insurance issued,

delivered or renewed within or without the commonwealth shall provide that the rate of payment

for services rendered by a certified nurse-midwife authorized to engage in the practice of nurse-

midwifery by the board of registration in nursing pursuant to section 80C of chapter 112 that is

within the scope of the certified nurse-midwife's authorization to practice shall be no less than

the payment rate for the same service if performed by a physician, regardless of the site of

services, or length of stay.

(b) A policy, contract, agreement, plan or certificate of insurance issued, delivered or

renewed within or without the commonwealth shall provide that the rate of payment for services

rendered by a licensed certified professional midwife authorized to engage in the practice of

midwifery by the board of registration in midwifery pursuant to section 110 of chapter 13 that is

within the scope of the licensed certified professional midwife's authorization to practice shall be

no less than the payment rate for the same service if performed by a physician, regardless of the

site of services, or length of stay.

Section 47AAA. A policy, contract, agreement, plan or certificate of insurance issued,

delivered or renewed within or without the commonwealth shall provide that the rate of payment

for services rendered by or within a licensed freestanding birth center regulated under section

51M of chapter 111, including newborn care and care provided prior to an intrapartum transfer to

another facility, shall be no less than the payment rate for the same services if performed at a
of 12

hospital, regardless of the site of services, or length of stay. Such payment shall include a

reasonable facility fee to be negotiated between the birth center and the payer; provided, that the

facility fee shall be no less than a minimum fee amount determined by the department of public

health in consultation with the center for health information and analysis, the health policy

commission, and operators and prospective operators of birth centers in the commonwealth.

SECTION 5. Chapter 176A of the General Laws is hereby amended by inserting after

section 8ZZ the following sections:-

Section 8AAA. (a) A contract between a subscriber and the corporation under an

individual or group hospital service plan that is delivered, issued or renewed within or without

the commonwealth shall provide that the rate of payment for services rendered by a certified

nurse-midwife authorized to engage in the practice of nurse-midwifery by the board of

registration in nursing pursuant to section 80C of chapter 112 that is within the scope of the

certified nurse-midwife's authorization to practice shall be no less than the payment rate for the

same service if performed by a physician, regardless of the site of services.

(b) A contract between a subscriber and the corporation under an individual or group

hospital service plan that is delivered, issued or renewed within or without the commonwealth

shall provide that the rate of payment for services rendered by a licensed certified professional

midwife authorized to engage in the practice of midwifery by the board of registration in

midwifery pursuant to section 110 of chapter 13 that is within the scope of the licensed certified

professional midwife's authorization to practice shall be no less than the payment rate for the

same service if performed by a physician, regardless of the site of services, or length of stay.
of 12

Section 8BBB. A contract between a subscriber and the corporation under an individual

or group hospital service plan that is issued, delivered or renewed within or without the

commonwealth shall provide that the rate of payment for services rendered by or within a

licensed freestanding birth center regulated under section 51M of chapter 111, including

newborn care and care provided prior to an intrapartum transfer to another facility, shall be no

less than the payment rate for the same services if performed at a hospital, regardless of the site

of services, or length of stay. Such payment shall include a reasonable facility fee to be

negotiated between the birth center and the payer; provided, that the facility fee shall be no less

than a minimum fee amount determined by the department of public health in consultation with

the center for health information and analysis, the health policy commission, and operators and

prospective operators of birth centers in the commonwealth.

SECTION 6. Chapter 176B of the General Laws is hereby amended by inserting after
section 4ZZ the following sections:Section 4AAA. (a) Any subscription certificate under an individual or group medical

service agreement that is delivered, issued or renewed within the commonwealth shall provide

that the rate of payment for services rendered by a certified nurse-midwife authorized to engage

in the practice of nurse-midwifery by the board of registration in nursing pursuant to section 80C

of chapter 112 that is within the scope of the certified nurse-midwife's authorization to practice

shall be no less than the payment rate for the same service if performed by a physician,

regardless of the site of services.

of 12

(b) Any subscription certificate under an individual or group medical service agreement

that is delivered, issued or renewed within the commonwealth shall provide that the rate of

payment for services rendered by a licensed certified professional midwife authorized to engage

in the practice of midwifery by the board of registration in midwifery pursuant to section 110 of

chapter 13 that is within the scope of the licensed certified professional midwife's authorization

to practice shall be no less than the payment rate for the same service if performed by a

physician, regardless of the site of services, or length of stay.

Section 4BBB. Any subscription certificate under an individual or group medical service

agreement that is issued, delivered or renewed within or without the commonwealth shall

provide that the rate of payment for services rendered by or within a licensed freestanding birth

center regulated under section 51M of chapter 111, including newborn care and care provided

prior to an intrapartum transfer to another facility, shall be no less than the payment rate for the

same services if performed at a hospital, regardless of the site of services, or length of stay. Such

payment shall include a reasonable facility fee to be negotiated between the birth center and the

payer; provided, that the facility fee shall be no less than a minimum fee amount determined by

the department of public health in consultation with the center for health information and

analysis, the health policy commission, and operators and prospective operators of birth centers

in the commonwealth.

SECTION 7. Chapter 176G of the General Laws is hereby amended by inserting after
section 4RR the following sections:Section 4SS. (a) Any individual or group health maintenance contract that is issued or
renewed within or without the commonwealth shall provide that the rate of payment for services

of 12

rendered by a certified nurse-midwife authorized to engage in the practice of nurse-midwifery by

the board of registration in nursing pursuant to section 80C of chapter 112 that is within the

scope of the certified nurse-midwife's authorization to practice shall be no less than the payment

rate for the same service if performed by a physician, regardless of the site of services, or length

of stay.

(b) Any subscription certificate under an individual or group medical service agreement

that is delivered, issued or renewed within the commonwealth shall provide that the rate of

payment for services rendered by a licensed certified professional midwife authorized to engage

in the practice of midwifery by the board of registration in midwifery pursuant to section 110 of

chapter 13 that is within the scope of the licensed certified professional midwife's authorization

to practice shall be no less than the payment rate for the same service if performed by a

physician, regardless of the site of services, or length of stay.

Section 4TT. Any individual or group health maintenance contract that is issued,

delivered or renewed within or without the commonwealth shall provide that the rate of payment

for services rendered by or within a licensed freestanding birth center regulated under section

51M of chapter 111, including newborn care and care provided prior to an intrapartum transfer to

another facility, shall be no less than the payment rate for the same services if performed at a

hospital, or length of stay. Such payment shall include a reasonable facility fee to be negotiated

between the birth center and the payer; provided, that the facility fee shall be no less than a

minimum fee amount determined by the department of public health in consultation with the

center for health information and analysis, the health policy commission, and operators and

prospective operators of birth centers in the commonwealth.

of 12

SECTION 8. (a) No later than 12 months after the effective date of this act, the

department of public health shall establish licensing requirements, plan review checklists and

facility guidelines specific for birth centers that reflect the particular needs of birth centers and

low-risk childbearing people. The requirements and guidelines shall be developed in consultation

with operators of birth centers in the commonwealth, people involved with the development of

prospective birth centers in the commonwealth, and groups concerned with improving birth

outcomes, midwifery and birth centers, including, but not limited to, the American College of

Nurse-Midwives, the National Association of Certified Professional Midwives, the American

Association of Birth Centers, and the Commission for the Accreditation of Birth Centers.

(b) No later than 90 days after the effective date of this act, the department of public

health shall waive plan review fees for birth centers which demonstrate substantial financial

hardship. The department shall issue guidelines and an application process for birth centers

seeking a waiver of plan review fees under this subsection; provided, that the guidelines and

application process shall be developed in consultation with operators of birth centers in the

commonwealth, people involved with the development of prospective birth centers in the

commonwealth, and groups concerned with improving birth outcomes, midwifery and birth

centers, including, but not limited to, the American College of Nurse-Midwives and the National

Association of Certified Professional Midwives.

SECTION 9. No later than 18 months after the effective date of this act, the department

of public health, or a third party designated by the department, shall participate in the

Community Birth Data Registry organized by the Foundation for Health Care Quality, or an

equivalent validated national data collection registry, for the purposes of quality improvement

of 12

and research, and direct all midwives in the commonwealth to record data on community births

with the registry.

Aggregate data as defined by the Board of Registration in Midwifery and as collected by

the registry shall be made available to the Department of Public Health Vital Records Division,

and shall be included in reports on births and birth outcomes reported by the department.

Researchers who meet reasonable standards and who have passed an appropriate ethics review

established by the department may have access to data collected by the registry. Confidential

birth data involving identifiable individuals shall under no circumstances be used to determine

whether a person is eligible for a license, privilege, right, grant, or benefit, or whether such

should be revoked. No individual or entity may query the dataset for purposes of investigation or

discipline.

No later than 6 months after the effective date of this act, the department of public health

shall issue a report on progress towards establishing a community birth data registry in

Massachusetts. The report shall identify any barriers identified by the department, how the

department intends to overcome the barriers, and the cost to the Commonwealth and midwives

and birth centers of participation. The report shall be filed with the house and senate committees

on ways and means and the joint committees on public health and children, families and persons

with disabilities, and published on the web site of the department.

For the purposes of this section, the term “community births” shall mean a birth that is

planned to occur in a home, birth center, or other location other than a hospital, and including

those that involve or include transfer to a hospital.

of 12
