AN ACT to amend the environmental conservation law, in relation to
establishing the wastewater infrastructure and drinking water program;
and making an appropriation therefor
The People of the State of New York, represented in Senate and Assem-
bly, do enact as follows:
Section 1. The environmental conservation law is amended by adding a
new section 3-0322 to read as follows:
§ 3-0322. Wastewater infrastructure and drinking water program.
1. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter or any other
law, rule or regulation, and subject to an appropriation made therefor
and in accordance with the provisions of this section and with the rules
and regulations promulgated by the commissioner in connection therewith,
on and after the first day of April, in the year next succeeding the
effective date of this section, a wastewater infrastructure and drinking
water program is hereby established for the purpose of making payments
toward the replacement and rehabilitation of existing local municipal-
ly-owned and funded drinking water, storm water and sanitary sewer
systems. For purposes of this section, such program shall apply to any
drinking water system, storm water system or sanitary sewer system with-
in the state that is under the maintenance and/or operational jurisdic-
tion of a county, city, town, village or public authority; provided,
however, that such system shall not be under the maintenance and/or
operational jurisdiction of a private entity. The commissioner, in
conjunction with the environmental facilities corporation, shall promul-
gate all necessary rules and regulations to carry out the program so
that an equitable distribution of aid shall be made for the general
EXPLANATION--Matter in italics (underscored) is new; matter in brackets
[ ] is old law to be omitted.
LBD09617-08-6

A. 9325--A 2
operation and/or general maintenance of any such existing drinking water
system, storm water system or sanitary sewer system.
2. Such program shall offer grants to municipalities to help pay for
the initial planning of eligible Clean Water State Revolving Fund
(CWSRF) water quality projects.
3. Funding may be used by municipalities for the preparation of an
engineering report. This includes planning activities to determine the
scope of water quality issues, evaluation of alternatives, and the
recommendation of a capital improvement project. In addition, the costs
to conduct an environmental review for the recommended alternative are
eligible. Design and construction costs are not eligible. Priority shall
be given to municipalities proposing planning activities that are:
(a) required by an executed Order on Consent; or
(b) required by a draft or final State Pollutant Discharge Elimination
System (SPDES) permit (e.g. nutrient removal, inflow and infiltration,
disinfection); or
(c) upgrading or replacing an existing wastewater system; or
(d) constructing a wastewater treatment and/or collection system for
an area with failing onsite septic systems; or
(e) addressing a pollutant of concern in a watershed implementation
plan (i.e. Total Maximum Daily Load (TMDL), Nine Element Watershed Plan,
or DEC HABs Action Plan).
§ 2. The sum of five million dollars ($5,000,000) is hereby appropri-
ated to the department of environmental conservation out of any moneys
in the state treasury in the general fund, not otherwise appropriated,
and made immediately available, for the purposes of providing emergency
municipal drinking water, wastewater and storm water infrastructure
grants for infrastructure projects where there is an imminent threat to
the environment and/or the public health, specifically for the wastewa-
ter infrastructure and drinking water program. Such moneys shall be
payable on the audit and warrant of the comptroller on vouchers certi-
fied or approved by the department of environmental conservation.
§ 3. This act shall take effect on the one hundred twentieth day after
it shall have become a law.
