Florida Senate - 2026

By Senator Smith

20261364__

Senate Joint Resolution

A joint resolution proposing an amendment to Section 9

of Article IV and the creation of a new section in

Article XII of the State Constitution to declare

collective responsibility for certain animal life and

to revise the composition of the Fish and Wildlife

Conservation Commission and appointments thereto.

Be It Resolved by the Legislature of the State of Florida:

That the following amendment to Section 9 of Article IV and

the creation of a new section in Article XII of the State

Constitution are agreed to and shall be submitted to the

electors of this state for approval or rejection at the next

general election or at an earlier special election specifically

authorized by law for that purpose:

ARTICLE IV

EXECUTIVE

SECTION 9.

Fish and wildlife conservation commission.—

(a) The wild animal life, fresh water aquatic life, and

marine life of this state belong to all of the people of this

state and must be conserved and sustainably managed for the

benefit of all the people of this state and its future

generations.

(b) There shall be a fish and wildlife conservation

commission, composed of nine qualified seven members appointed

by the governor, subject to confirmation by the senate for

staggered terms of five years. At least one commissioner must be

a full-time resident of one of the five regional administrative
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261364__

divisions established by the commission as of July 1, 2026, and

at least three commissioners must also have:

(1) A postgraduate degree in the field of conservation,
biology, or wildlife management; and

(2) Direct experience in fish or wildlife conservation or

management which is evidenced through professional occupation.

(c) The fish and wildlife conservation commission shall

exercise the regulatory and executive powers of the state with

respect to wild animal life and fresh water aquatic life, and

shall also exercise regulatory and executive powers of the state

with respect to marine life, except that all license fees for

taking wild animal life, fresh water aquatic life, and marine

life and penalties for violating regulations of the commission

shall be prescribed by general law. The commission shall

establish procedures to ensure adequate due process in the

exercise of its regulatory and executive functions. The

legislature may enact laws in aid of the commission, not

inconsistent with this section, except that there shall be no

special law or general law of local application pertaining to

hunting or fishing. The commission’s exercise of executive

powers in the area of planning, budgeting, personnel management,

and purchasing shall be as provided by law. Revenue derived from

license fees for the taking of wild animal life and fresh water

aquatic life shall be appropriated to the commission by the

legislature for the purposes of management, protection, and

conservation of wild animal life and fresh water aquatic life.

Revenue derived from license fees relating to marine life shall

be appropriated by the legislature for the purposes of

management, protection, and conservation of marine life as
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261364__

provided by law. The commission shall not be a unit of any other

state agency and shall have its own staff, which includes

management, research, and enforcement. Unless provided by

general law, the commission shall have no authority to regulate

matters relating to air and water pollution.

ARTICLE XII

SCHEDULE

Appointments to fish and wildlife conservation commission.—

The following procedures apply to the appointment of members to

the fish and wildlife conservation commission in accordance with

the amendment to Section 9 of Article IV:

(a) To ensure compliance with the qualifications in

accordance with Section 9(b) of Article IV, for the terms of

office of commissioners who were originally appointed between

January 1, 2022, and December 31, 2023, such seats shall be

vacated January 5, 2027. By March 5, 2027, the governor shall

appoint four qualified commissioners, subject to confirmation by

the senate.

(b) By March 5, 2027, for the terms of office of

commissioners who were originally appointed between January 1,

2019, and December 31, 2019, such seats shall be vacated and the

governor shall appoint two qualified commissioners, subject to

confirmation by the senate.

(c) By January 5, 2028, for the terms of office of

commissioners who were originally appointed between January 1,

2017, and December 31, 2018, such seats shall be vacated and the

governor shall appoint three qualified commissioners, subject to

confirmation by the senate.

(d) Thereafter, the terms of office of commissioners shall
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20261364__

be staggered terms of five years so that no more than three

commissioners’ terms expire in any calendar year. A commissioner

may not serve more than two terms, consecutive or otherwise.

(e) Vacancies shall be filled as provided in Section 9(b)
of Article IV.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the following statement be
placed on the ballot:

CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT

ARTICLE IV, SECTION 9

ARTICLE XII

WILDLIFE MANAGEMENT; MODIFYING MEMBERSHIP OF THE FISH AND

WILDLIFE CONSERVATION COMMISSION.—Proposing an amendment to the

State Constitution to declare Florida residents’ collective

stewardship of certain animal life and to state that such life

must be conserved and sustainably managed for future

generations. The amendment also expands the membership of the

Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission and provides a

schedule for implementing the revised membership of the

commission.

CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.
