House Bill 1277 (AS PASSED HOUSE AND SENATE)
By: Representatives Barton of the 5th, Jasperse of the 11th, Campbell of the 171st, Hagan of
the 156th, and McDonald III of the 26th

A BILL TO BE ENTITLED
AN ACT

To amend Article 1 of Chapter 16 of Title 12 and Title 32 of the Official Code of Georgia

Annotated, relating to environmental policy and highways, bridges, and ferries, respectively,

so as to increase the project cost threshold for public roads or airports requiring

environmental evaluations; to authorize annual adjustments to such thresholds based upon

inflation; to revise various reporting requirements relating to projects of and contracts

awarded by the Department of Transportation; to provide for publication of such reports; to

repeal a limit on the amount of design-build projects that may be awarded by such

department; to increase the property value threshold for requirements relating to the sale of

property no longer needed for public road purposes; to authorize annual adjustments to such

threshold based upon inflation; to provide for conforming changes; to amend Code

Section 46-2-20.1 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, relating to electric vehicle

charging services and operation, so as to provide for definitions; to amend an Act relating to

regulation and taxation of electricity used as motor fuel and electric vehicle charging stations,

approved May 2, 2023 (Ga. L. 2023, p. 376/SB 146), as amended, so as to extend the

effective date of provisions relative to regulatory authority of the Department of Agriculture

and revenue and taxation; to provide for related matters; to repeal conflicting laws; and for

other purposes.

BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF GEORGIA:

SECTION 1.

Article 1 of Chapter 16 of Title 12 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, relating to

environmental policy, is amended by revising Code Section 12-16-9, relating to limitation

on requirement for environmental evaluation, as follows:

"12-16-9.

When a project of a department, municipality, county, or authority to construct or improve

a public road or airport does not exceed $100 $200 million in costs, such project shall not

constitute a proposed governmental action which may significantly adversely affect the

quality of the environment and the requirements of this article shall not be applicable,

except that an environmental evaluation shall be considered in the decision-making

process, consistent with paragraph (3) of Code Section 12-16-2, when it is probable to

expect significant adverse impact on historical sites or buildings and cultural resources.

On July 1, 2027, and each July 1 thereafter, the division shall be authorized to annually

adjust the cost threshold established in this Code section; provided, however, that such

adjustment shall not result in an increase by more than the annual rate of inflation as

measured by the Consumer Price Index as reported by the Bureau of Labor Statistics of the

United States Department of Labor."

SECTION 2.

Title 32 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated relating to highways, bridges, and ferries,

is amended by revising Code Section 32-2-41.2, relating to development of benchmarks,

reports, and value engineering studies, as follows:

"32-2-41.2.

(a) The commissioner shall develop and publish in print or electronically benchmarks,

based upon the type and scope of a construction project, that detail a realistic time frame

for completion of each stage of a construction project, including preliminary engineering

and design, environmental permitting and review, and right of way acquisition The

department shall develop and publish an annual fiscal year report accounting for the

investment of public funds in transportation during the previous fiscal year. Such report

shall be made available to the Governor and the General Assembly by January 15 of each

year.

(b) The director shall submit an annual report to the Governor, the Lieutenant Governor,

the Speaker of the House of Representatives, and the chairpersons of the House and Senate

Transportation Committees detailing the progress of every construction project valued at

$10 million or more against the benchmarks. This report shall include an analysis

explaining the discrepancies between the benchmarks and actual performance on each

project as well as an explanation for delays. This report shall also be published on the

website of the department The department shall maintain on its website a detailed status

report for each programmed project, including a project description, projected schedule by

programmed phases, and projected cost by programmed phases.

(c) The department shall create and maintain on its website a detailed status report on each

project under planning or construction. This status report shall include, but not be limited

to, the name and contact information of the project manager, if applicable.

(d) Value engineering studies shall be performed on all projects whose costs exceed $50

million, except for any project procured in accordance with Code Sections 32-2-79,

32-2-80, and 32-2-81, and the director shall submit an annual report to the Governor, the

Lieutenant Governor, the Speaker of the House of Representatives, and the chairpersons

of the House and Senate Transportation Committees detailing the amount saved due to the

value engineering studies. This report shall also be published on the website of the

department."

SECTION 3.

Said title is further amended in Code Section 32-2-43, relating to director of planning,

appointment, and responsibilities, by revising subsection (b) as follows:

"(b) The director of planning's principal responsibility shall be the development of

transportation plans, including the development of the state-wide strategic transportation

plan, state-wide transportation improvement program, state-wide freight and logistics

implementation plan, and other comprehensive plans pursuant to the provisions of Code

Section Sections 32-2-3 and Code Section 32-2-22, and strategic transportation plans

pursuant to the provisions of Code Section 32-2-41.1, and benchmarks and value

engineering studies pursuant to the provisions of Code Section 32-2-41.2, in consultation

with the board, the Governor, and the commissioner. The director shall also be responsible

for the duties and activities assigned to the director in Article 5 of Chapter 8 of Title 48.

The director shall be the director of the Planning Division of the department and shall

possess, exercise, and perform all the duties, powers, and authority which may be vested

in such division by law and are necessary or appropriate for such purpose, except those

duties, powers, and authority which are expressly reserved by law to the board or the

commissioner."

SECTION 4.

Said title is further amended in Code Section 32-2-69, relating to bidding process and award

of contract, by revising subsection (a) as follows:

"(a) Except as authorized by Code Sections 32-2-79, 32-2-80, and 32-2-82, the department

shall award contracts to the lowest reliable bidder, provided that the department shall have

the right to reject any and all such bids whether such right is reserved in the public notice

or not and, in such case, the department may readvertise republish the advertisement,

perform the work itself, or abandon the project."

SECTION 5.

Said title is further amended by repealing and reserving Code Section 32-2-79, relating to

biennial reporting of potential undertakings best suited for public-private partnership.

SECTION 6.

Said title is further amended in Code Section 32-2-80, relating to public-private partnerships

(P3s), by revising subsection (d) as follows:

"(d) The department shall be authorized to promulgate reasonable rules or regulations to

assist in proposal evaluations and to implement the purposes of this Code section. The

department shall report the content of such rules or regulations to the Transportation

Committees of the Senate and House of Representatives for their approval by majority vote

prior to the promulgation thereof and shall make quarterly reports to the same chairpersons

of all of its activities undertaken pursuant to the provisions of this Code section annual

reports to the same chairpersons on the status of the projects undertaken pursuant to this

Code section in relation to the annual fiscal year report required by subsection (a) of Code

Section 32-2-41.2."

SECTION 7.

Said title is further amended in Code Section 32-2-81, relating to design-build procedure, by

revising subsections (e) and (f) as follows:

"(e) In contracting for design-build projects, the department shall be limited to contracting

for no more than 50 percent of the total amount of construction projects awarded in the

previous fiscal year.

(f) Not later than 90 days after Following the end of the fiscal year, the department shall

provide to the Governor, Lieutenant Governor President of the Senate, Speaker of the

House of Representatives, and chairpersons of the House and Senate Transportation

Committees a summary containing all the projects awarded during the fiscal year using the

design-build contracting method. Included in the report shall be Such report shall

include an explanation for any projects awarded to based upon anything other than the

low-bid proposal, the considerations for any project awarded on a best value basis, and a

summary of projects undertaken pursuant to this Code section in relation to the annual

fiscal year report required by subsection (a) of Code Section 32-2-41.2. This The report

required by this Code section shall be made available for public information to the public."

SECTION 8.

Said title is further amended in Code Section 32-2-82, relating to alternative contracting

method, by revising subsection (g) as follows:

"(g) Not later than 90 days after Following the end of a fiscal year in which the department

has executed a contract to deliver a project using an alternative contracting method, the

department shall provide to the Governor, Lieutenant Governor President of the Senate,

Speaker of the House of Representatives, and chairpersons of the House and Senate

Transportation Committees a summary report containing a summary of all contracts that

utilized an alternative contracting method. Such report shall include a comparative benefit

analysis of projects undertaken under this Code section. The department shall include a

summary of projects undertaken utilizing the contracting methods provided for in this Code

section in the annual fiscal year report required by subsection (a) of Code Section

32-2-41.2. This The report required by this Code section shall be made available to the

public."

SECTION 9.

Said title is further amended in Code Section 32-7-4, relating to procedure for disposition of

property, by revising paragraph (2) of subsection (a) and subsection (b) as follows:

"(2)(A) When an entire parcel acquired by the department, a county, or a municipality,

or any interest therein, is being disposed of, it may be acquired under the right created

in paragraph (1) of this subsection at such price as may be agreed upon, but in no event

less than the price paid for its acquisition. When only remnants or portions of the

original acquisition are being disposed of, they may be acquired for a price no less than

percent under the market value thereof at the time the department, county, or

municipality decides the property is no longer needed. The department shall use a real

estate appraiser with knowledge of the local real estate market who is licensed in

Georgia to establish the fair market value of the property prior to listing such property.

(B) The provisions of subparagraph (A) of this paragraph notwithstanding, if the value

of the property to be disposed is $75,000.00 $150,000.00 or less as determined by

department estimate, the department, county, or municipality may negotiate the sale.

On July 1, 2027, and each July 1 thereafter, the department shall be authorized to

annually adjust the value threshold established in this subparagraph; provided, however,

that such adjustment shall not result in an increase by more than the annual rate of

inflation as measured by the Consumer Price Index as reported by the Bureau of Labor

Statistics of the United States Department of Labor.

(C) The provisions of this paragraph to the contrary notwithstanding, the department

shall be authorized to negotiate the sale of the property to be disposed with an adjacent

property owner, provided that such property is acquired for a price no less than 15

percent under the market value thereof at the time the department decides the property

is no longer needed."

"(b)(1)(A) Unless a sale of the property is made pursuant to paragraph (2) or (3) of this

subsection, such sale of property no longer needed by the department shall be made to

the bidder submitting the highest of the sealed bids received after public advertisement

for such bids for two weeks. If the highest of the sealed bids received is less than but

within 15 percent of the established market value, the department may accept that bid

and convey the property in accordance with the provisions of subsection (c) of this

Code section. The department or the county or municipality shall have the right to

reject any and all bids, in its discretion, to readvertise, republish the advertisement or

to abandon the sale.

(B) Such The public advertisement required by this subsection shall be inserted

published once a week in such newspapers or other publication, or both, as will ensure

adequate publicity, the first insertion publication to be at least two weeks prior to the

opening of bids, the second to follow one week after the first publication. Such

advertisement shall include but not be limited to the following items:

(i) A description sufficient to enable the public to identify the property;

(ii) The time and place for submission and opening of sealed bids;

(iii) The right of the department or the county or municipality to reject any one or all

of the bids;

(iv) All the conditions of sale; and

(v) Such further information as the department or the county or municipality may

deem advisable as in the public interest.

(2)(A) Such Any sale of property pursuant to this subsection may be made by the

department or a county or municipality by listing the property through a real estate

broker licensed under Chapter 40 of Title 43 who has a place of business located in the

state. Property Any such property shall be listed for a period of at least 30 days. The

department shall use a real estate appraiser with knowledge of the local real estate

market who is licensed in Georgia to establish the fair market value of the property

prior to listing such property. If the highest offer received to purchase such property

is less than the appraised value but within 15 percent of such value, the department,

county, or municipality may accept such offer and convey the property in accordance

with the provisions of subsection (c) of this Code section. All sales shall be approved

by the commissioner on behalf of the department or shall be approved by the governing

authority of the county or municipality at a regular meeting that shall be open to the

public, and public comments shall be allowed at such meeting and that allows for public

comment regarding such sale.

(B)

subparagraph (A) of this paragraph, the department, county, or municipality shall

provide for a notice to be inserted published once a week for two weeks in the legal

Commencing at the time of the listing of the property as provided in

organ of the county indicating the names of real estate brokers listing the property for

the department or political subdivision. The department, county, or municipality may

advertise publish such advertisement in newspapers, on the Internet internet, or in

magazines relating to the sale of real estate or similar publications.

(C) The department, county, or municipality shall have the right to reject any and all

offers, in its discretion, and to sell such property pursuant to the provisions of

paragraph (1) of this subsection.

(D) The department shall be authorized to sell property pursuant to this paragraph to

the highest bidder utilizing an online public auction after meeting the requirements set

forth in this paragraph. If the highest offer received to purchase any property is less

than the appraised value but within 15 percent of such value, the department may accept

such offer and convey the property in accordance with the provisions of section (c) of

this Code section.

(3)(A) Such Any sale of property pursuant to this subsection may be made by the

department, a county, or a municipality to the highest bidder at a public auction

conducted by an auctioneer licensed under Chapter 6 of Title 43. If the highest offer

received to purchase such property is less than the appraised value of the property but

within 15 percent of such value, the department, county, or municipality may accept

such offer and convey the property in accordance with the provisions of subsection (c)

of this Code section.

(B) The department, county, or municipality shall provide for a notice to be inserted

published once a week for the two weeks immediately preceding the auction in the legal

organ of the county where such property is located including, at a minimum, the

following items:

(i) A description sufficient to enable the public to identify the property;

(ii) The time and place of the public auction;

(iii) The right of the department or the county or municipality to reject any one or all

of the bids;

(iv) All the conditions of sale; and

(v) Such further information as the department or the county or municipality may

deem advisable as in the public interest.

The department, county, or municipality may advertise publish such advertisement in

magazines relating to the sale of real estate or similar publications.

(C) The department, county, or municipality shall have the right to reject any and all

offers for such property, in its discretion, and to sell such property pursuant to the

provisions of paragraph (1) or (2) of this subsection.

(D) The department shall be authorized to sell property pursuant to this paragraph to

the highest bidder utilizing an online public auction after meeting the requirements set

forth in this paragraph. If the highest offer received to purchase any property is less

than the appraised value but within 15 percent of such value, the department may accept

such offer and convey the property in accordance with the provisions of section (c) of

this Code section."

SECTION 10.

Code Section 46-2-20.1 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, relating to electric

vehicle charging services and operation, is amended by revising paragraphs (3) and (5) of

subsection (a) as follows:

"(3) 'Electric vehicle' shall have the same meaning as set forth in Code Section 10-1-220

means a vehicle that is propelled by one or more electric motors fueled by energy stored

in the form of a rechargeable battery."

"(5) 'Electric vehicle charging station' shall have the same meaning as set forth in Code

Section 10-1-220 means any device or group of devices that delivers electricity from a

power source outside an electric vehicle into one or more electric vehicles and that is

located somewhere other than a residence."

SECTION 11.

An Act relating to regulation and taxation of electricity used as motor fuel and electric

vehicle charging stations, approved May 2, 2023 (Ga. L. 2023, p. 376/SB 146), as amended,

is amended by revising subsection (b) of Section 5-1 to read as follows:

"(b) Part II of this Act, which provides for the regulatory authority of the Department of

Agriculture, and Part III of this Act, relating to revenue and taxation, shall become

effective on January 1, 2028."

SECTION 12.
All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this Act are repealed.
